38011559 | Targeting the lipid kinase PIKfyve upregulates surface expression of MHC class I to augment cancer immunotherapy. Despite the remarkable clinical success of immunotherapies in a subset of cancer patients, many fail to respond to treatment and exhibit resistance. Here, we found that genetic or pharmacologic inhibition of the lipid kinase PIKfyve, a regulator of autophagic flux and lysosomal biogenesis, upregulated surface expression of major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I) in cancer cells via impairing autophagic flux, resulting in enhanced cancer cell killing mediated by CD8+ T cells. Genetic depletion or pharmacologic inhibition of PIKfyve elevated tumor-specific MHC-I surface expression, increased intratumoral functional CD8+ T cells, and slowed tumor progression in multiple syngeneic mouse models. Importantly, enhanced antitumor responses by Pikfyve-depletion were CD8+ T cell- and MHC-I-dependent, as CD8+ T cell depletion or B2m knockout rescued tumor growth. Furthermore, PIKfyve inhibition improved response to immune checkpoint blockade (ICB), adoptive cell therapy, and a therapeutic vaccine. High expression of PIKFYVE was also predictive of poor response to ICB and prognostic of poor survival in ICB-treated cohorts. Collectively, our findings show that targeting PIKfyve enhances immunotherapies by elevating surface expression of MHC-I in cancer cells, and PIKfyve inhibitors have potential as agents to increase immunotherapy response in cancer patients.
38013161 | Silent airway mucus plugs in COPD and clinical implications. BACKGROUND: Airway mucus plugs are frequently identified on computed tomography (CT) scans of patients with COPD with a smoking history without mucus-related symptoms, i.e., cough and phlegm (\silent mucus plugs\). RESEARCH QUESTIONS: In patients with COPD, what are risk and protective factors associated with silent airway mucus plugs? Are silent mucus plugs associated with functional, structural, and clinical measures of disease? STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: We identified mucus plugs on chest CT scans of participants with COPD from the COPDGene study. The mucus plug score was defined as the number of pulmonary segments with mucus plugs, ranging from 0 to 18, and categorized into three groups (0, 1-2, and 3+). We determined risk and protective factors for silent mucus plugs and the associations of silent mucus plugs with measures of disease severity using multivariable linear and logistic regression models. RESULTS: Of 4,363 participants with COPD, 1,739 had no cough or phlegm. Among the 1,739 participants, 627 (36%) had airway mucus plugs identified on CT. Risk factors of silent mucus plugs (compared to symptomatic mucus plugs) were older age (Odds ratio, OR=1.02), female sex (OR=1.40), and Black race (OR=1.93) (all P values < 0.01). Among those without cough or phlegm, silent mucus plugs (vs. absence of mucus plugs) were associated with worse 6-MWD, resting SpO2, FEV1% predicted, greater emphysema, thicker airway walls, and higher odds of severe exacerbation in the past year in adjusted models. INTERPRETATION: Mucus plugs are common in COPD patients without mucus-related symptoms. Silent mucus plugs are associated with worse functional, structural and clinical measures of disease. CT-identified mucus plugs can complement the evaluation of patients with COPD.
38023788 | Reprogramming Cancer Cells to Antigen-presenting Cells. Cancer cells evade the immune system by downregulating antigen presentation. Although immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI) and adoptive T-cell therapies revolutionized cancer treatment, their efficacy relies on the intrinsic immunogenicity of tumor cells and antigen presentation by dendritic cells. Here, we describe a protocol to directly reprogram murine and human cancer cells into tumor-antigen-presenting cells (tumor-APCs), using the type 1 conventional dendritic cell (cDC1) transcription factors PU.1, IRF8, and BATF3 delivered by a lentiviral vector. Tumor-APCs acquire a cDC1 cell-like phenotype, transcriptional and epigenetic programs, and function within nine days (Zimmermannova et al., 2023). Tumor-APCs express the hematopoietic marker CD45 and acquire the antigen presentation complexes MHC class I and II as well as co-stimulatory molecules required for antigen presentation to T cells, but do not express high levels of negative immune checkpoint regulators. Enriched tumor-APCs present antigens to Naive CD8+ and CD4+ T cells, are targeted by activated cytotoxic T lymphocytes, and elicit anti-tumor responses in vivo. The tumor-APC reprogramming protocol described here provides a simple and robust method to revert tumor evasion mechanisms by increasing antigen presentation in cancer cells. This platform has the potential to prime antigen-specific T-cell expansion, which can be leveraged for developing new cancer vaccines, neoantigen discovery, and expansion of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes. Key features   This protocol describes the generation of antigen-presenting cells from cancer cells by direct reprogramming using lineage-instructive transcription factors of conventional dendritic cells type I.   Verification of reprogramming efficiency by flow cytometry and functional assessment of tumor-APCs by antigen presentation assays.
38049662 | Perturbational phenotyping of human blood cells reveals genetically determined latent traits associated with subsets of common diseases. Although genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have successfully linked genetic risk loci to various disorders, identifying underlying cellular biological mechanisms remains challenging due to the complex nature of common diseases. We established a framework using human peripheral blood cells, physical, chemical and pharmacological perturbations, and flow cytometry-based functional readouts to reveal latent cellular processes and performed GWAS based on these evoked traits in up to 2,600 individuals. We identified 119 genomic loci implicating 96 genes associated with these cellular responses and discovered associations between evoked blood phenotypes and subsets of common diseases. We found a population of pro-inflammatory anti-apoptotic neutrophils prevalent in individuals with specific subsets of cardiometabolic disease. Multigenic models based on this trait predicted the risk of developing chronic kidney disease in type 2 diabetes patients. By expanding the phenotypic space for human genetic studies, we could identify variants associated with large effect response differences, stratify patients and efficiently characterize the underlying biology.
38131058 | Efficacy and safety of pharmacotherapy in chronic insomnia: A review of clinical guidelines and case reports. Introduction: Chronic insomnia affects 5% to 10% of the US population, increasing the demand for treatment options and the corresponding research to prove their validity.1 This review compares recommendations from 3 clinical guidelines and summarizes hypnotic medications, including their newly reported side effects not mentioned in the guidelines. In addition, we aim to provide an overview of what pharmacotherapies are available for prescribers and patients. Methods: A literature search was conducted for articles published prior to January 10, 2022, and case reports and clinical studies were retrieved from PubMed and Google Scholar. Results: Definitive conclusions cannot be drawn regarding the safety and efficacy of medications reviewed; however, trends are apparent. All 3 guidelines included in this review remarked most treatment recommendations as weak except for cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia, which is effective but not readily available. Furthermore, based on the 15 case reports and 13 clinical studies presented in this review, many of the medications used for treatment of insomnia present safety concerns. Discussion: Benzodiazepines and benzodiazepine receptor agonists are commonly used hypnotic agents with the \Z-drugs\ having robust data establishing their efficacy for the short-term treatment of chronic insomnia. However, significant adverse effects related to the central nervous system (CNS), including developing tolerance, addiction, CNS depression, and amnesia, remain barriers to their long-term use. In comparison, newer agents present more favorable side-effect profiles although with less established efficacy. Additionally, off-label agents, including antidepressants, antihistamines, and natural supplements, are discussed due to their prominent use.
38170159 | Interferon regulatory factor 4 plays a pivotal role in the development of aGVHD-associated colitis. Interferon regulatory factor 4 (IRF4) is a master transcription factor that regulates T helper cell (Th) differentiation. It interacts with the Basic leucine zipper transcription factor, ATF-like (BATF), depletion of which in CD4+ T cells abrogates acute graft-versus-host disease (aGVHD)-induced colitis. Here, we investigated the immune-regulatory role of Irf4 in a mouse model of MHC-mismatched bone marrow transplantation. We found that recipients of allogenic Irf4-/- CD4+ T cells developed less GVHD-related symptoms. Transcriptome analysis of re-isolated donor Irf4-/- CD4+ T helper (Th) cells, revealed gene expression profiles consistent with loss of effector T helper cell signatures and enrichment of a regulatory T cell (Treg) gene expression signature. In line with these findings, we observed a high expression of the transcription factor BTB and CNC homolog 2; (BACH2) in Irf4-/- T cells, which is associated with the formation of Treg cells and suppression of Th subset differentiation. We also found an association between BACH2 expression and Treg differentiation in patients with intestinal GVHD. Finally, our results indicate that IRF4 and BACH2 act as counterparts in Th cell polarization and immune homeostasis during GVHD. In conclusion, targeting the BACH2/IRF4-axis could help to develop novel therapeutic approaches against GVHD.
38196838 | Prediction of an immunogenic peptide ensemble and multi-subunit vaccine for Visceral leishmaniasis using bioinformatics approaches. Visceral Leishmaniasis (VL) is a neglected tropical disease of public health importance in the Indian subcontinent. Despite consistent elimination initiatives, the disease has not yet been eliminated and there is an increased risk of resurgence from active VL reservoirs including asymptomatic, post kala azar dermatitis leishmaniasis (PKDL) and HIV-VL co-infected individuals. To achieve complete elimination and sustain it in the long term, a prophylactic vaccine, which can elicit long lasting immunity, is desirable. In this study, we employed immunoinformatic tools to design a multi-subunit epitope vaccine for the Indian population by targeting antigenic secretory proteins screened from the Leishmania donovani proteome. Out of 8014 proteins, 277 secretory proteins were screened for their cellular location and proteomic evidence. Through NCBI BlastP, unique fragments of the proteins were cropped, and their antigenicity was evaluated. B-cell, HTL and CTL epitopes as well as IFN-gamma, IL-17, and IL-10 inducers were predicted, manually mapped to the fragments and common regions were tabulated forming a peptide ensemble. The ensemble was evaluated for Class I MHC immunogenicity and toxicity. Further, immunogenic peptides were randomly selected and used to design vaccine constructs. Eight vaccine constructs were generated by linking random peptides with GS linkers. Synthetic TLR-4 agonist, RS09 was used as an adjuvant and linked with the constructs using EAAK linkers. The predicted population coverage of the constructs was ~99.8 % in the Indian as well as South Asian populations. The most antigenic, nontoxic, non-allergic construct was chosen for the prediction of secondary and tertiary structures. The 3D structures were refined and analyzed using Ramachandran plot and Z-scores. The construct was docked with TLR-4 receptor. Molecular dynamic simulation was performed to check for the stability of the docked complex. Comparative in silico immune simulation studies showed that the predicted construct elicited humoral and cell-mediated immunity in human host comparable to that elicited by Leish-F3, which is a promising vaccine candidate for human VL.
38415261 | T-cell virtuosity in ''knowing thyself\. Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC) I and II and the alphabeta T-cell antigen receptor (TCRalphabeta) govern fundamental traits of adaptive immunity. They form a membrane-borne ligand-receptor system weighing host proteome integrity to detect contamination by nonself proteins. MHC-I and -II exhibit the \MHC-fold\, which is able to bind a large assortment of short peptides as proxies for self and nonself proteins. The ensuing varying surfaces are mandatory ligands for Ig-like TCRalphabeta highly mutable binding sites. Conserved molecular signatures guide TCRalphabeta ligand binding sites to focus on the MHC-fold (MHC-restriction) while leaving many opportunities for its most hypervariable determinants to contact the peptide. This riveting molecular strategy affords many options for binding energy compatible with specific recognition and signalling aimed to eradicated microbial pathogens and cancer cells. While the molecular foundations of alphabeta T-cell adaptive immunity are largely understood, uncertainty persists on how peptide-MHC binding induces the TCRalphabeta signals that instruct cell-fate decisions. Solving this mystery is another milestone for understanding alphabeta T-cells' self/nonself discrimination. Recent developments revealing the innermost links between TCRalphabeta structural dynamics and signalling modality should help dissipate this long-sought-after enigma.
38570827 | B-1 derived anti-Thy-1 B cells in old aged mice develop lymphoma/leukemia with high expression of CD11b and Hamp2 that different from TCL1 transgenic mice. Human old aged unmutated chronic lymphocytic leukemia U-CLL are the TCL1+ZAP70+CD5+ B cells. Since CD5 makes the BCR signaling tolerance, ZAP70 increased in U-CLL not only TCL1+ alone. In mice, TCL1 (TCL1A) is the negative from neonate to old aged, as TC-. VH8-12/Vk21-5 is the anti-thymocyte/Thy-1 autoreactive ATA B cell. When ATA mukappaTg generation in mice, ATA B cells are the neonate generated CD5+ B cells in B-1, and in the middle age, CD5+ can be down or continuously CD5+, then, old aged CLL/lymphoma generation with increased CD11b in TC-ZAP70-CD5- or TC-ZAP70+CD5+. In this old aged TC-ATA B microarray analysis showed most similar to human CLL and U-CLL, and TC-ZAP70+CD5+ showed certain higher present as U-CLL. Original neonate ATA B cells showed with several genes down or further increase in old aged tumor, and old aged T-bet+CD11c+, CTNNB1hi, HMGBhi, CXCR4hi, DPP4hi and decreased miR181b. These old aged increased genes and down miR181b are similar to human CLL. Also, in old age ATA B cell tumor, high CD38++CD44++, increased Ki67+ AID+, and decreased CD180- miR15Olow are similar to U-CLL. In this old aged ATA B, increased TLR7,9 and Wnt10b. TC+Tg generated with ATAmukappaTg mice occurred middle age tumor as TC+ZAP70-CD5+ or TC+ZAP70+CD5+, with high NF-kB1, TLR4,6 and Wnt5b,6 without increased CD11b. Since neonatal state to age with TC+Tg continuously, middle age CLL/lymphoma generation is not similar to old aged generated, however, some increased in TC+ZAP70+ are similar to the old age TC- ATA B tumor. Then, TC- ATA B old age tumor showed some difference to human CLL. ATA B cells showed CD11b+CD22++, CD24 down, and hepcidin Hamp2++ with iron down. This mouse V8-12 similar to human V2-5, and V2-5 showed several cancers with macrophages/neutrophils generated hepcidin+ ironlow or some showed hepcidin- iron+ with tumor, and mouse V8-12 with different Vk19-17 generate MZ B cells strongly increased macrophage++ in old aged and generated intestine/colon tumor. Conclusion, neonate generated TC-ATA B1 cells in old aged tumor generation are CD11b+ in the leukemia CLL together with lymphoma cancer with hepcidin-related Hamp2++ in B-1 cell generation to control iron.
38576241 | Synthetic biology-based bacterial extracellular vesicles displaying BMP-2 and CXCR4 to ameliorate osteoporosis. Osteoporosis (OP) is a systematic bone disease characterized by low bone mass and fragile bone microarchitecture. Conventional treatment for OP has limited efficacy and long-term toxicity. Synthetic biology makes bacterial extracellular vesicle (BEVs)-based therapeutic strategies a promising alternative for the treatment of OP. Here, we constructed a recombinant probiotics Escherichia coli Nissle 1917-pET28a-ClyA-BMP-2-CXCR4 (ECN-pClyA-BMP-2-CXCR4), in which BMP-2 and CXCR4 were overexpressed in fusion with BEVs surface protein ClyA. Subsequently, we isolated engineered BEVs-BMP-2-CXCR4 (BEVs-BC) for OP therapy. The engineered BEVs-BC exhibited great bone targeting in vivo. In addition, BEVs-BC had good biocompatibility and remarkable ability to promote osteogenic differentiation of BMSCs. Finally, the synthetic biology-based BEVs-BC significantly prevented the OP in an ovariectomized (OVX) mouse model. In conclusion, we constructed BEVs-BC with both bone-targeting and bone-forming in one-step using synthetic biology, which provides an effective strategy for OP and has great potential for industrialization.
38630814 | Acoustothermal transfection for cell therapy. Transfected stem cells and T cells are promising in personalized cell therapy and immunotherapy against various diseases. However, existing transfection techniques face a fundamental trade-off between transfection efficiency and cell viability; achieving both simultaneously remains a substantial challenge. This study presents an acoustothermal transfection method that leverages acoustic and thermal effects on cells to enhance the permeability of both the cell membrane and nuclear envelope to achieve safe, efficient, and high-throughput transfection of primary T cells and stem cells. With this method, two types of plasmids were simultaneously delivered into the nuclei of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) with efficiencies of 89.6 +- 1.2%. CXCR4-transfected MSCs could efficiently target cerebral ischemia sites in vivo and reduce the infarct volume in mice. Our acoustothermal transfection method addresses a key bottleneck in balancing the transfection efficiency and cell viability, which can become a powerful tool in the future for cellular and gene therapies.
38631668 | Icariside II alleviates lipopolysaccharide-induced acute lung injury by inhibiting lung epithelial inflammatory and immune responses mediated by neutrophil extracellular traps. AIMS: Acute lung injury (ALI) is a life-threatening lung disease characterized by inflammatory cell infiltration and lung epithelial injury. Icariside II (ICS II), one of the main active ingredients of Herba Epimedii, exhibits anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory effects. However, the effect and mechanism of ICS II in ALI remain unclear. The purpose of the current study was to investigate the pharmacological effect and underlying mechanism of ICS II in ALI. MAIN METHODS: Models of neutrophil-like cells, human peripheral blood neutrophils, and lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced ALI mouse model were utilized. RT-qPCR and Western blotting determined the gene and protein expression levels. Protein distribution and quantification were analyzed by immunofluorescence. KEY FINDINGS: ICS II significantly reduced lung histopathological damage, edema, and inflammatory cell infiltration, and it reduced pro-inflammatory cytokines in ALI. There is an excessive activation of neutrophils leading to a significant production of NETs in ALI mice, a process mitigated by the administration of ICS II. In vivo and in vitro studies found that ICS II could decrease NET formation by targeting neutrophil C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR4). Further data showed that ICS II reduces the overproduction of dsDNA, a NETs-related component, thereby suppressing cGAS/STING/NF-kappaB signalling pathway activation and inflammatory mediators release in lung epithelial cells. SIGNIFICANCE: This study suggested that ICS II may alleviate LPS-induced ALI by modulating the inflammatory response, indicating its potential as a therapeutic agent for ALI treatment.
8799160 | Chromosomal localization of the proteasome Z subunit gene reveals an ancient chromosomal duplication involving the major histocompatibility complex. Proteasomes are the multi-subunit protease thought to play a key role in the generation of peptides presented by major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I molecules. When cells are stimulated with interferon gamma, two MHC-encoded subunits, low molecular mass polypeptide (LMP) 2 and LMP7, and the MECL1 subunit encoded outside the MHC are incorporated into the proteasomal complex, presumably by displacing the housekeeping subunits designated Y, X, and Z, respectively. These changes in the subunit composition appear to facilitate class I-mediated antigen presentation, presumably by altering the cleavage specificities of the proteasome. Here we show that the mouse gene encoding the Z subunit (Psmb7) maps to the paracentromeric region of chromosome 2. Inspection of the mouse loci adjacent to the Psmb7 locus provides evidence that the paracentromeric region of chromosome 2 and the MHC region on chromosome 17 most likely arose as a result of a duplication that took place at an early stage of vertebrate evolution. The traces of this duplication are also evident in the homologous human chromosome regions (6p21.3 and 9q33-q34). These observations have implications in understanding the genomic organization of the present-day MHC and offer insights into the origin of the MHC.
9300697 | The mouse genes encoding the third pair of beta-type proteasome subunits regulated reciprocally by IFN-gamma: structural comparison, chromosomal localization, and analysis of the promoter. Proteasomes are the multisubunit protease involved in the generation of peptides presented by MHC class I molecules. When cells are stimulated with IFN-gamma, two MHC-encoded subunits, low Mr polypeptide 2 (LMP2) and LMP7, are incorporated into the proteasomal complex by displacing the housekeeping subunits, designated Y and X, respectively. Recent evidence indicates that besides the LMP2/Y and LMP7/X subunits, there is another pair of structurally similar beta-type subunits, designated MECL1 and Z, whose expression is regulated reciprocally by IFN-y. In the present study we determined the genomic organizations of the mouse genes, Psmb10 and Psmb7, that encode the MECL1 and Z subunits, respectively. Although the two genes differ > 10-fold in size, they both have eight exons, with the exon-intron boundaries located precisely at the equivalent positions. The organization of the Psmb10 and Psmb7 genes differs from those of the genes encoding the other two pairs of IFN-gamma-regulated subunits. Thus, comparison of the gene structures supports the idea that Psmb10 and Psmb7 arose by duplication from an immediate common ancestor. The promoter region of the Psmb10 gene contains two IFN-stimulated response elements, the functionality of which was confirmed by in vitro mutagenesis. The mouse Psmb10 gene maps to chromosome 8, thus outside the MHC like its human counterpart. Besides the Psmb7 gene previously mapped to chromosome 2, a truncated processed pseudogene, designated Psmb7-ps, was identified and mapped to chromosome X.
9311996 | Intermediates in the formation of mouse 20S proteasomes: implications for the assembly of precursor beta subunits. The assembly of individual proteasome subunits into catalytically active mammalian 20S proteasomes is not well understood. Using subunit-specific antibodies, we characterized both precursor and mature proteasome complexes. Antibodies to PSMA4 (C9) immunoprecipitated complexes composed of alpha, precursor beta and processed beta subunits. However, antibodies to PSMA3 (C8) and PSMB9 (LMP2) immunoprecipitated complexes made up of alpha and precursor beta but no processed beta subunits. These complexes possess short half-lives, are enzymatically inactive and their molecular weight is approximately 300 kDa. Radioactivity chases from these complexes into mature, long-lived approximately 700 kDa proteasomes. Therefore, these structures represent precursor proteasomes and are probably made up of two rings: one containing alpha subunits and the other, precursor beta subunits. The assembly of precursor proteasomes occurs in at least two stages, with precursor beta subunits PSMB2 (C7-I), PSMB3 (C10-II), PSMB7 (Z), PSMB9 (LMP2) and PSMB10 (LMP10) being incorporated before others [PSMB1 (C5), PSMB6 (delta), and PSMB8 (LMP7)]. Proteasome maturation (processing of the beta subunits and juxtaposition of the two beta rings) is accompanied by conformational changes in the (outer) alpha rings, and may be inefficient. Finally, interferon-gamma had no significant effect on the half-lives or total amounts of precursor or mature proteasomes.
9382924 | Structural analysis and chromosomal localization of the mouse Psmb5 gene coding for the constitutively expressed beta-type proteasome subunit. The proteasome is a multi-subunit protease responsible for the production of peptides presented by major histocompatibility complex class I molecules. Accumulated evidence indicates that, upon stimulation with interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), three beta-type subunits, designated LMP2, LMP7, and PSMB10, are incorporated into the 20S proteasome by displacing the housekeeping beta-type subunits designated PSMB6, PSMB5, and PSMB7, respectively. These changes in the subunit composition appear to facilitate class I-mediated antigen presentation, presumably by altering the cleavage specificities of the proteasome. In the present study, we determined the organization of the mouse gene Psmb5, coding for the PSMB5 subunit. Psmb5 is made up of three exons, spanning approximately 5 kilobases. Its exon-intron organization differs radically from those of the other IFN-gamma-regulated, beta-type subunit genes including Lmp7 with which Psmb5 is believed to share an immediate common ancestor. The structure of the mouse Psmb5 gene is identical to that of its recently characterized human counterpart. Thus, the unique organization of the gene coding for the PSMB5 subunit appears to have been established before mammalian radiation. As well as the Psmb5 gene, the mouse genome contains a processed pseudogene designated Psmb5-ps. Interspecific backcross mapping showed that Psmb5 maps close to the Gtrgal2 locus on chromosome 14 and that Psmb5-ps is located in the vicinity of the Psme3 locus on chromosome 11. These results were confirmed by fluorescent in situ hybridization analysis that localized Psmb5 to band C2 to proximal D1 of chromosome 14 and Psmb5-ps to band D of chromosome 11.
10453006 | Analysis of a 26-kb region linked to the Mhc in zebrafish: genomic organization of the proteasome component beta/transporter associated with antigen processing-2 gene cluster and identification of five new proteasome beta subunit genes. Sequencing of zebrafish (Danio rerio) bacterial artificial chromosome and P1 artificial chromosome genomic clone fragments and of cDNA clones has led to the identification of five new loci coding for beta subunits of proteasomes (PSMB). Together with the four genes identified previously, nine PSMB genes have now been defined in the zebrafish. Six of the nine genes reside in the zebrafish MHC (Mhc) class I region, four of them reside in a single cluster closely associated with TAP2 on a 26-kb long genomic fragment, and two reside at some distance from the fragment. In addition to homologues of the human genes PSMB5 through PSMB9, two new genes, PSMB11 and PSMB12, have been found for which there are no known corresponding genes in humans. The new genes reside in the PSMB cluster in the Mhc. Homology and promoter region analysis suggest that the Mhc-associated genes might be inducible by IFN-gamma. The zebrafish class I region contains representatives of three phylogenetically distinguishable groups of PSMB genes, X, Y, and Z. It is proposed that these genes were present in the ancestral PSMB region before Mhc class I genes became associated with it.
12851310 | A polymorphic form of steroidogenic factor 1 associated with ACTH receptor deficiency in mouse adrenal cell mutants. We have described a family of adrenocortical tumor cell mutants (including clones OS3, Y6, and 10r9) that are resistant to ACTH because they fail to express the gene encoding the ACTH receptor (MC2R). The MC2R deficiency results from a mutation that impairs the activity of the nuclear receptor steroidogenic factor 1 (SF1) at the MC2R promoter. In this report, we show that ACTH resistance in the mutant clones is associated with a Sf1 gene that has Ser at codon 172 instead of Ala. In two of the three mutant clones, this Sf1 allele is amplified together with flanking DNA from chromosome 2 that includes the genes encoding germ cell nuclear factor and the beta-type proteosome subunit Psmb7. SF1(A172) and SF1(S172) exhibit little or no difference in transcriptional activity in SF1-dependent reporter gene assays, suggesting that SF1(S172) per se is not directly responsible for the loss of MC2R expression. Instead, the Sf1(S172) allele appears to be a marker of ACTH resistance in this family of adrenocortical tumor cell mutants, possibly reflecting the activity of a neighboring gene.
17521679 | Tissue specific increase of the catalytic subunits of the 26S proteasome by indirect antioxidant dithiolethione in mice: enhanced activity for degradation of abnormal protein. Decreases in the 26S proteasome are related to the toxicities of abnormal protein aggregates and may contribute to pathogenesis of degenerative diseases. Therefore, maintenance of proteasome function can be a novel strategy to protect cells against abnormal protein-mediated toxicity. In the present study, we have demonstrated the tissue specific increase of the catalytic subunits of the proteasome in mice following oral administration of 3H-1,2-dithiole-3-thione (D3T, 0.5 mmol/kg), which functions as a cancer preventive agent in animal and human studies. Expression of the 20S catalytic core subunits PSMB5, PSMB6, and PSMB7 were increased in liver, lung, small intestine, and colon of mice at 24 h after D3T treatment. Elevated expression of proteasome catalytic subunits led to increases in proteasomal peptidase activities in these tissues. Oral administration of D3T also exerted a pharmacodynamic action in some brain regions of these mice and proteasomal peptidase activities were significantly elevated in the cerebral cortex-hippocampus. Moreover, tissue extracts from D3T-treated mice and cell lysates obtained from D3T-incubated murine neuroblastoma cells exhibited the enhanced capacity to degrade mutant human SOD1G93A protein. These results indicate that the catalytic subunits of the 26S proteasome are inducible in multiple tissues of mouse including brain by exogenous chemical treatment. Increased proteasome expression by inducers may have a role in protection/attenuation of protein aggregate-mediated disorders.
19394698 | An amphioxus TLR with dynamic embryonic expression pattern responses to pathogens and activates NF-kappaB pathway via MyD88. A big bang expansion of the Vertebrate-type (V-type) TLRs was reported in amphioxus. To shed lights on its implications, a unique TLR which is reversely inserted into an intron of amphioxus PSMB7-10 by retrotransposition in the highly polymorphic proto-MHC region was cloned from Chinese amphioxus (Branchiostoma belcheri tsingtauense) and named as bbtTLR1. In situ assays showed that bbtTLR1 was predominantly expressed in pharynx and gut from larva to adult stages, which are considered as the first frontlines of amphioxus defense system. Acute immune challenges revealed that the expression of bbtTLR1 was stimulated by bacteria and their cell wall components, while suppressed by Glucan and Poly I:C in the digestive system. Amphioxus also had dozens of TIR adaptors from which we cloned bbtMyD88. BbtMyD88 expressed in 293T cells led to the activation of NF-kappaB pathway through its DEATH and middle domains. Moreover, this activation could be enhanced by bbtTLR1 through the direct association with bbtMyD88. In summary, this study provides evidence for the immune-relation of amphioxus V-type TLRs, and suggests that amphioxus TLR1 and MyD88 represent a basic evolutionary pathway.
25194880 | Amyloid-beta precursor protein facilitates the regulator of calcineurin 1-mediated apoptosis by downregulating proteasome subunit alpha type-5 and proteasome subunit beta type-7. Individuals with Down syndrome (DS), caused by trisomy of chromosome 21, inevitably develop characteristic Alzheimer's disease (AD) neuropathology, including neuritic plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, and neuronal loss. Amyloid-beta protein, the major component of neuritic plaques, is the proteolytic product of amyloid-beta precursor protein (APP). APP and the regulator of calcineurin 1 (RCAN1) genes on chromosome 21 play a pivotal role in promoting plaque formation and neuronal apoptosis. However, the mechanism underlying AD pathogenesis in DS is not well defined. In this study, we demonstrated that APP significantly increased RCAN1 level in both cells and transgenic mice. Overexpression of APP significantly reduced the expression of 2 proteasome subunits, proteasome subunit alpha type-5 and proteasome subunit beta type-7, leading to the inhibition of proteasomal degradation of RCAN1. Furthermore, knockdown of RCAN1 expression attenuated APP-induced neuronal apoptosis. Taken together, the results clearly showed that APP has a previously unknown function in regulating RCAN1-mediated neuronal apoptosis through the proteasome pathway. Our study demonstrates a novel mechanism by which overexpression of APP and RCAN1 causes neurodegeneration and AD pathogenesis in DS, and it provides new insights into the potential of targeting APP-induced proteasomal impairment and RCAN1 accumulation for AD and DS treatment. 
27226492 | BAP18 coactivates androgen receptor action and promotes prostate cancer progression. BPTF associated protein of 18 kDa (BAP18) has been reported as a component of MLL1-WDR5 complex. However, BAP18 is an uncharacterized protein. The detailed biological functions of BAP18 and underlying mechanisms have not been defined. Androgen receptor (AR), a member of transcription factor, plays an essential role in prostate cancer (PCa) and castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) progression. Here, we demonstrate that BAP18 is identified as a coactivator of AR in Drosophilar experimental system and mammalian cells. BAP18 facilitates the recruitment of MLL1 subcomplex and AR to androgen-response element (ARE) of AR target genes, subsequently increasing histone H3K4 trimethylation and H4K16 acetylation. Knockdown of BAP18 attenuates cell growth and proliferation of PCa cells. Moreover, BAP18 depletion results in inhibition of xenograft tumor growth in mice even under androgen-depletion conditions. In addition, our data show that BAP18 expression in clinical PCa samples is higher than that in benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). Our data suggest that BAP18 as an epigenetic modifier regulates AR-induced transactivation and the function of BAP18 might be targeted in human PCa to promote tumor growth and progression to castration-resistance.
27493218 | Alternative haplotypes of antigen processing genes in zebrafish diverged early in vertebrate evolution. Antigen processing and presentation genes found within the MHC are among the most highly polymorphic genes of vertebrate genomes, providing populations with diverse immune responses to a wide array of pathogens. Here, we describe transcriptome, exome, and whole-genome sequencing of clonal zebrafish, uncovering the most extensive diversity within the antigen processing and presentation genes of any species yet examined. Our CG2 clonal zebrafish assembly provides genomic context within a remarkably divergent haplotype of the core MHC region on chromosome 19 for six expressed genes not found in the zebrafish reference genome: mhc1uga, proteasome-beta 9b (psmb9b), psmb8f, and previously unknown genes psmb13b, tap2d, and tap2e We identify ancient lineages for Psmb13 within a proteasome branch previously thought to be monomorphic and provide evidence of substantial lineage diversity within each of three major trifurcations of catalytic-type proteasome subunits in vertebrates: Psmb5/Psmb8/Psmb11, Psmb6/Psmb9/Psmb12, and Psmb7/Psmb10/Psmb13. Strikingly, nearby tap2 and MHC class I genes also retain ancient sequence lineages, indicating that alternative lineages may have been preserved throughout the entire MHC pathway since early diversification of the adaptive immune system ~500 Mya. Furthermore, polymorphisms within the three MHC pathway steps (antigen cleavage, transport, and presentation) are each predicted to alter peptide specificity. Lastly, comparative analysis shows that antigen processing gene diversity is far more extensive than previously realized (with ancient coelacanth psmb8 lineages, shark psmb13, and tap2t and psmb10 outside the teleost MHC), implying distinct immune functions and conserved roles in shaping MHC pathway evolution throughout vertebrates.
29158022 | Activation of the Nrf2 signaling pathway and neuroprotection of nigral dopaminergic neurons by a novel synthetic compound KMS99220. The transcription factor Nrf2 is known to induce gene expression of antioxidant enzymes and proteasome subunits. Because both oxidative stress and protein aggregation have damaging effects on neurons, activation of the Nrf2 signaling should be beneficial against neurodegeneration. In this study, we report a novel synthetic morpholine-containing chalcone KMS99220 that confers neuroprotection. It showed high binding affinity to the Nrf2 inhibitory protein Keap-1 and increased nuclear translocation of Nrf2 and gene expression of the antioxidant enzymes heme oxygenase-1, NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase-1, and the catalytic and modifier subunits of glutamate-cysteine ligase in dopaminergic CATH.a cells. KMS99220 also increased expression of the proteasome subunits PSMB5, PSMB7, PSMB8 and PSMA1, and the respective chymotrypsin and trypsin-like proteasomal enzyme activities, and reduced alpha-synuclein aggregate in GFP-alpha-syn A53T-overexpressing cells. KMS99220 exhibited a favorable pharmacokinetic profile with excellent bioavailability and metabolic stability, did not interfere with activities of the cytochrome p450 isotypes, and showed no apparent in vivo toxicity when administered up to 2000 mg/kg. In 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated mice, oral administration of KMS99220 prevented degeneration of the nigral dopaminergic neurons, induced the Nrf2 target genes, and effectively prevented the associated motor deficits. These results suggest KMS99220 as a potential candidate for therapy against Parkinson's disease.
31126898 | Peak OGTT glucose is associated with lower lung function in young children with cystic fibrosis. BACKGROUND: Screening for Cystic Fibrosis-related diabetes is recommended in patients with CF <10 years old when there are concerns about growth and lung function. The Oral Glucose Tolerance Test (OGTT) is recommended but has not been validated in this cohort. We sought to determine whether the 2-h OGTT, the gold standard diagnostic test for CFRD, detects clinical decline in children with CF <10 years old. METHODS: We analysed blood glucose(BG) levels collected every 30 min during OGTT in 27 children with CF < 10 years old, comparing the 2-hour BG (BG120min), peak BG (BGmax) and Area Under the Curve(AUC) for glucose and the association with lung function and nutritional status. We also compared the OGTT results with results from Continuous Glucose Monitoring (CGM) performed in 11 participants. RESULTS: The BGmax was higher than the BG120min in 25/27 (93%) participants. There was a significant inverse correlation between BGmax and weight z-score (rs = -0.56, p = .002) and between BGmax and FEV1 (rs = -0.54, p = .014) that was not present for BG120min. A significant inverse correlation was also identified between fasting insulin level and elevated glucose on CGM, defined as AUC >7.8 mmol/L (rs = - 0.69, p = .027) or as % time > 7.8 (rs = - 0.76, p = .011). CONCLUSIONS: Children with CF < 10 years of age with higher BGmax on OGTT have lower lung function and weight z- scores that may not be identified using the 2 h OGTT BG120min. CGM also identifies glucose excursions in young children with CF.
31672555 | Differences in clinical outcomes of paediatric cystic fibrosis patients with and without meconium ileus. BACKGROUND: Meconium ileus (MI) affects up to 20% of newborns with cystic fibrosis (CF). We compared clinical outcomes between Australian paediatric CF patients with and without meconium ileus (non-MI). METHODS: This was a retrospective case-control study of MI and non-MI patients in New South Wales, Australia, from 1988 to 2010. MI patients were matched 1:1 with pancreatic insufficient non-MI patients for age, sex and CF clinic. Clinical measurements, nutrition and gastrointestinal outcomes over this period were compared between groups using linear mixed models for continuous variables to account for age. RESULTS: There were 162 matched pairs (N=324, 52% female) with mean (SD) age of 15.3 (8.2) and 14.9 (7.9) years for MI and non-MI patients respectively (P=0.6). MI patients aged 5-23 had poorer FEV1% compared to non-MI patients (estimate -0.070 SE [0.02], P=0.003). There were no significant differences in P. aeruginosa isolation rates; however S. aureus isolation rates were lower in MI patients (72%) compared to non-MI (82%) (OR 0.6 [0.3-1.0], P=0.03). Chronic colonisation rates for P. aeruginosa and S. aureus were not significantly different between groups. MI patients aged 2-20 had significantly lower BMI Z-scores over time (estimate -0.25 SE [0.1], P=0.02). MI patients were more likely to receive oral feed supplements (OR 2.8 [1.4-6.1], P=0.003) and gastrostomy formation (OR 4.4 [1.1-24.6], P=0.02). CONCLUSIONS: CF patients with MI may have worse lung function, growth and nutrition than non-MI patients over time. Meconium ileus may be an early poor prognostic factor for CF.
31819107 | Gut Microbiota in Children With Cystic Fibrosis: A Taxonomic and Functional Dysbiosis. Intestinal dysbiosis has been observed in children with cystic fibrosis (CF), yet the functional consequences are poorly understood. We investigated the functional capacity of intestinal microbiota and inflammation in children with CF. Stool samples were collected from 27 children with CF and 27 age and gender matched healthy controls (HC) (aged 0.8-18 years). Microbial communities were investigated by iTag sequencing of 16S rRNA genes and functional profiles predicted using Tax4Fun. Inflammation was measured by faecal calprotectin and M2-pyruvate kinase. Paediatric CF gastrointestinal microbiota demonstrated lower richness and diversity compared to HC. CF samples exhibited a marked taxonomic and inferred functional dysbiosis when compared to HC. In children with CF, we predicted an enrichment of genes involved in short-chain fatty acid (SCFA), antioxidant and nutrient metabolism (relevant for growth and nutrition) in CF. The notion of pro-inflammatory GI microbiota in children with CF is supported by positive correlations between intestinal inflammatory markers and both genera and functional pathways. We also observed an association between intestinal genera and both growth z-scores and FEV1%. These taxonomic and functional changes provide insights into gastrointestinal disease in children with CF and future gastrointestinal therapeutics for CF should explore the aforementioned pathways and microbial changes.
32113162 | BAP18 is involved in upregulation of CCND1/2 transcription to promote cell growth in oral squamous cell carcinoma. BACKGROUND: As a reader of histone H3K4me3, BPTF associated protein of 18 kDa (BAP18) is involved in modulation of androgen receptor action in prostate cancer. However, the function of BAP18 on oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) and its molecular mechanism remains to be elusive. METHODS: OSCC-derived cell lines carrying silenced BAP18 were established by Lentiviral infection. Quantitative PCR (qPCR), western blot, and ChIP assay were performed to detect gene transcription regulation and the possible mechanism. Colony formation, cell growth curve and xenograft tumor experiments were performed to examine cell growth and proliferation. FINDINGS: Our study demonstrated that BAP18 was highly expressed in OSCC samples compared with that in benign. BAP18 depletion obviously influenced the expression of a series of genes, including cell cycle-related genes. We thus provided the evidence to demonstrate that BAP18 depletion significantly decreases CCND1 and CCND2 (CCND1/2) transcription. In addition, BAP18 is recruited to the promoter regions of CCND1/2, thereby facilitating the recruitment of the core subunits of MLL1 complex to the same regions, to increase histone H3K4me3 levels. Furthermore, BAP18 depletion delayed G1-S phase transition and inhibited cell growth in OSCC-derived cell lines. INTERPRETATION: This study suggests that BAP18 is involved in modulation of CCND1/2 transcription and promotes OSCC progression. BAP18 could be a potential target for OSCC treatment and diagnosis. FUND: This work was funded by National Natural Science Foundation of China (31871286, 81872015, 31701102, 81702800, 81902889), Foundation for Special Professor of Liaoning Province, and Supported project for young technological innovation-talents in Shenyang (No. RC170541).
32986841 | An H3K4me3 reader, BAP18 as an adaptor of COMPASS-like core subunits co-activates ERalpha action and associates with the sensitivity of antiestrogen in breast cancer. Estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) signaling pathway is essential for ERalpha-positive breast cancer progression and endocrine therapy resistance. Bromodomain PHD Finger Transcription Factor (BPTF) associated protein of 18kDa (BAP18) has been recognized as a crucial H3K4me3 reader. However, the whole genomic occupation of BAP18 and its biological function in breast cancer is still elusive. Here, we found that higher expression of BAP18 in ERalpha-positive breast cancer is positively correlated with poor prognosis. ChIP-seq analysis further demonstrated that the half estrogen response elements (EREs) and the CCCTC binding factor (CTCF) binding sites are the significant enrichment sites found in estrogen-induced BAP18 binding sites. Also, we provide the evidence to demonstrate that BAP18 as a novel co-activator of ERalpha is required for the recruitment of COMPASS-like core subunits to the cis-regulatory element of ERalpha target genes in breast cancer cells. BAP18 is recruited to the promoter regions of estrogen-induced genes, accompanied with the enrichment of the lysine 4-trimethylated histone H3 tail (H3K4me3) in the presence of E2. Furthermore, BAP18 promotes cell growth and associates the sensitivity of antiestrogen in ERalpha-positive breast cancer. Our data suggest that BAP18 facilitates the association between ERalpha and COMPASS-like core subunits, which might be an essential epigenetic therapeutic target for breast cancer.
34761556 | Structures of Class I and Class II Transcription Complexes Reveal the Molecular Basis of RamA-Dependent Transcription Activation. Transcription activator RamA is linked to multidrug resistance of Klebsiella pneumoniae through controlling genes that encode efflux pumps (acrA) and porin-regulating antisense RNA (micF). In bacteria, sigma70 , together with activators, controls the majority of genes by recruiting RNA polymerase (RNAP) to the promoter regions. RNAP and sigma70 form a holoenzyme that recognizes -35 and -10 promoter DNA consensus sites. Many activators bind upstream from the holoenzyme and can be broadly divided into two classes. RamA acts as a class I activator on acrA and class II activator on micF, respectively. The authors present biochemical and structural data on RamA in complex with RNAP-sigma70 at the two promoters and the data reveal the molecular basis for how RamA assembles and interacts with core RNAP and activates transcription that contributes to antibiotic resistance. Further, comparing with CAP/TAP complexes reveals common and activator-specific features in activator binding and uncovers distinct roles of the two C-terminal domains of RNAP alpha subunit.
35799704 | Evaluation of Immunoproteasome-Specific Proteolytic Activity Using Fluorogenic Peptide Substrates. The 26S proteasome irreversibly hydrolyzes polyubiquitylated substrates to maintain protein homeostasis; it also regulates immune responses by generating antigenic peptides. An alternative form of the 26S proteasome is the immunoproteasome, which contains substituted catalytic subunits (beta1i/PSMB9, beta2i/PSMB10, and beta5i/PSMB8) instead of constitutively expressed counterparts (beta1/PSMB6, beta2/PSMB7, and beta5/PSMB5). The immunoproteasome expands the peptide repertoire presented on MHC class I molecules. However, how its activity changes in this context is largely elusive, possibly due to the lack of a standardized methodology to evaluate its specific activity. Here, we describe an assay protocol that measures the immunoproteasome activity of whole-cell lysates using commercially available fluorogenic peptide substrates. Our results showed that the most accurate assessment of immunoproteasome activity could be achieved by combining beta5i-targeting substrate Ac-ANW-AMC and immunoproteasome inhibitor ONX-0914. This simple and reliable protocol may contribute to future studies of immunoproteasomes and their pathophysiological roles during viral infection, inflammation, and tumorigenesis.
36927149 | Assessment of pre-clinical liver models based on their ability to predict the liver-tropism of AAV vectors. The liver is a prime target for in vivo gene therapies using recombinant adeno-associated viral vectors (rAAV). Multiple clinical trials have been undertaken for this target in the past 15 years, however we are still to see market approval of the first liver-targeted AAV-based gene therapy. Inefficient expression of the therapeutic transgene, vector-induced liver toxicity and capsid, and/or transgene-mediated immune responses reported at high vector doses are the main challenges to date. One of the contributing factors to the insufficient clinical outcomes, despite highly encouraging preclinical data, is the lack of robust, biologically- and clinically-predictive preclinical models. To this end, this study reports findings of a functional evaluation of six AAV vectors in twelve preclinical models of the human liver, with the aim to uncover which combination of models is the most relevant for the identification of AAV capsid variant for safe and efficient transgene delivery to primary human hepatocytes. The results, generated by studies in models ranging from immortalized cells, iPSC-derived and primary hepatocytes, and primary human hepatic organoids to in vivo models, increased our understanding of the strengths and weaknesses of each system. This should allow the development of novel gene therapies targeting the human liver.
37344694 | Interplay between proteasome function and inflammatory responses in e-cig vapor condensate-challenged lung epithelial cells. Exposure to cigarettes and other nicotine-based products results in persistent inflammation in the lung. In recent years, electronic cigarettes (e-cigs) have become extremely popular among adults and youth alike. E-cigarette vapor-induced oxidative stress promotes protein breakdown, DNA damage and cell death, culminating in a variety of respiratory diseases. The proteasome, a multi-catalytic protease, superintends protein degradation within the cell. When cells are stimulated with inflammatory cytokines such as IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha, the constitutive catalytic proteasome subunits are replaced by the inducible subunits-low-molecular mass polypeptide (LMP)2 (beta1i), multi-catalytic endopeptidase complex-like (MECL)1 (beta2i), and LMP7 (beta5i), which are required for the production of certain MHC class I-restricted T-cell epitopes. In this study, we used human alveolar epithelial cells (A549) and exposed them to filtered air or (1%) tobacco-flavored (TF) electronic cigarette vapor condensate (ECVC) +- nicotine (6 mg/ml) (TF-ECVC +- N) for 24 h. We observed an increase in the levels of IFN-gamma, TNF-alpha, and inducible proteasome subunits (LMP7/PSMB8, LMP2/PSMB9, MECL1/PSMB10), and a reduced expression of constitutive proteasome subunits (beta1/PSMB6 and beta2/PSMB7) in challenged A549 cells. Interestingly, knockdown of the inducible proteasome subunit LMP7 reversed ECVC-induced expression of NADPH oxidase and immunoproteasome subunits in A549 cells. In addition, pre-exposure to an LMP7 inhibitor (ONX-0914) abrogated the mRNA expression of several NOX subunits and rescued the excessive production/release of inflammatory cytokines/chemokines (IL-6, IL-8, CCL2, and CCL5) in ECVC-challenged cells. Our findings suggest an important role of LMP7 in regulating the expression of inflammatory mediators during ECVC exposure. Overall, our results provide evidence for proteasome-dependent ROS-mediated inflammation in ECVC-challenged cells.
38128484 | HOGVAX: Exploiting epitope overlaps to maximize population coverage in vaccine design with application to SARS-CoV-2. The efficacy of epitope vaccines depends on the included epitopes as well as the probability that the selected epitopes are presented by the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) proteins of a vaccinated individual. Designing vaccines that effectively immunize a high proportion of the population is challenging because of high MHC polymorphism, diverging MHC-peptide binding affinities, and physical constraints on epitope vaccine constructs. Here, we present HOGVAX, a combinatorial optimization approach for epitope vaccine design. To optimize population coverage within the constraint of limited vaccine construct space, HOGVAX employs a hierarchical overlap graph (HOG) to identify and exploit overlaps between selected peptides and explicitly models the structure of linkage disequilibrium in the MHC. In a SARS-CoV-2 case study, we demonstrate that HOGVAX-designed vaccines contain substantially more epitopes than vaccines built from concatenated peptides and predict vaccine efficacy in over 98% of the population with high numbers of presented peptides in vaccinated individuals.
38169032 | Pediococcus pentosaceus MIANGUAN Enhances the Immune Response to Vaccination in Mice. Increasing evidence shows that some probiotics can improve vaccine responses as adjuvants. This study aimed to evaluate the effect of Pediococcus pentosaceus MIANGUAN (PPM) on SARS-CoV-2 vaccine-elicited immune response in mice. Six-week-old female ICR mice were primed and boosted with SARS-CoV-2 vaccine intramuscularly at weeks 0 and 4, respectively. Mice were gavaged with PPM (5 x 109 CFU/mouse) or PBS (control) for 3 days immediately after boosting vaccination. Compared to the control, oral PPM administration resulted in significantly higher levels of RBD-specific IgG binding antibodies (> 2.3-fold) and RBD-specific IgG1 binding antibodies (> 4-fold) in the serum. Additionally, PPM-treated mice had higher titers of RBD-specific IgG binding antibodies (> 2.29-fold) and neutralization antibodies (> 1.6-fold) in the lung compared to the control mice. The transcriptional analyses showed that the B cell receptor (BCR) signaling pathway was upregulated in both splenocytes and BAL cells in the PPM group vs. the control group. In addition, the number of IFN-gamma-producing splenocytes (mainly in CD4 + T cells as determined by flow cytometry) in response to restimulation of RBD peptides was significantly increased in the PPM group. RNA sequencing showed that the genes associated with T cell activation and maturation and MHC class II pathway (CD4, H2-DMa, H2-DMb1, H2-Oa, Ctss) were upregulated, suggesting that oral administration of PPM may enhance CD4 + T cell responses through MHC class II pathway. Furthermore, PPM administration could downregulate the expression level of proinflammatory genes. To conclude, oral administration of PPM could boost SARS-CoV-2 vaccine efficacy through enhancing the specific humoral and cellular immunity response and decrease the expression of inflammation pathways.
38199985 | ROCK1/2 signaling contributes to corticosteroid-refractory acute graft-versus-host disease. Patients with corticosteroid-refractory acute graft-versus-host disease (aGVHD) have a low one-year survival rate. Identification and validation of novel targetable kinases in patients who experience corticosteroid-refractory-aGVHD may help improve outcomes. Kinase-specific proteomics of leukocytes from patients with corticosteroid-refractory-GVHD identified rho kinase type 1 (ROCK1) as the most significantly upregulated kinase. ROCK1/2 inhibition improved survival and histological GVHD severity in mice and was synergistic with JAK1/2 inhibition, without compromising graft-versus-leukemia-effects. ROCK1/2-inhibition in macrophages or dendritic cells prior to transfer reduced GVHD severity. Mechanistically, ROCK1/2 inhibition or ROCK1 knockdown interfered with CD80, CD86, MHC-II expression and IL-6, IL-1beta, iNOS and TNF production in myeloid cells. This was accompanied by impaired T cell activation by dendritic cells and inhibition of cytoskeletal rearrangements, thereby reducing macrophage and DC migration. NF-kappaB signaling was reduced in myeloid cells following ROCK1/2 inhibition. In conclusion, ROCK1/2 inhibition interferes with immune activation at multiple levels and reduces acute GVHD while maintaining GVL-effects, including in corticosteroid-refractory settings.
38237527 | SARS-CoV-2 induces inflammation and intracranial infection through the olfactory epithelium-olfactory bulb pathway in non-human primates. We examined the histopathological changes in the olfactory mucosa of cynomolgus and rhesus macaque models of SARS-CoV-2 infection. SARS-CoV-2 infection induced severe inflammatory changes in the olfactory mucosa. A major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II molecule, HLA-DR was expressed in macrophage and supporting cells, and melanocytes were increased in olfactory mucosa. Supporting cells and olfactory neurons were infected, and SARS-CoV-2 N protein was detected in the axons of olfactory neurons and in olfactory bulbs. Viral RNA was detected in olfactory bulbs and brain tissues. The olfactory epithelium-olfactory bulb pathway may be important as a route for intracranial infection by SARS-CoV-2.
38293085 | Integrated germline and somatic features reveal divergent immune pathways driving ICB response. Immune Checkpoint Blockade (ICB) has revolutionized cancer treatment, however mechanisms determining patient response remain poorly understood. Here we used machine learning to predict ICB response from germline and somatic biomarkers and interpreted the learned model to uncover putative mechanisms driving superior outcomes. Patients with higher T follicular helper infiltrates were robust to defects in the class-I Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC-I). Further investigation uncovered different ICB responses in MHC-I versus MHC-II neoantigen reliant tumors across patients. Despite similar response rates, MHC-II reliant responses were associated with significantly longer durable clinical benefit (Discovery: Median OS=63.6 vs. 34.5 months P=0.0074; Validation: Median OS=37.5 vs. 33.1 months, P=0.040). Characteristics of the tumor immune microenvironment reflected MHC neoantigen reliance, and analysis of immune checkpoints revealed LAG3 as a potential target in MHC-II but not MHC-I reliant responses. This study highlights the value of interpretable machine learning models in elucidating the biological basis of therapy responses.
38299328 | Sex Differences in Prehospital Identification of Large Vessel Occlusion in Patients With Suspected Stroke. BACKGROUND: Differences in clinical presentation of acute ischemic stroke between men and women may affect prehospital identification of anterior circulation large vessel occlusion (aLVO). We assessed sex differences in diagnostic performance of 8 prehospital scales to detect aLVO. METHODS: We analyzed pooled individual patient data from 2 prospective cohort studies (LPSS [Leiden Prehospital Stroke Study] and PRESTO [Prehospital Triage of Patients With Suspected Stroke Study]) conducted in the Netherlands between 2018 and 2019, including consecutive patients >=18 years suspected of acute stroke who presented within 6 hours after symptom onset. Ambulance paramedics assessed clinical items from 8 prehospital aLVO detection scales: Los Angeles Motor Scale, Rapid Arterial Occlusion Evaluation, Cincinnati Stroke Triage Assessment Tool, Cincinnati Prehospital Stroke Scale, Prehospital Acute Stroke Severity, gaze-face-arm-speech-time, Conveniently Grasped Field Assessment Stroke Triage, and Face-Arm-Speech-Time Plus Severe Arm or Leg Motor Deficit. We assessed the diagnostic performance of these scales for identifying aLVO at prespecified cut points for men and women. RESULTS: Of 2358 patients with suspected stroke (median age, 73 years; 47% women), 231 (10%) had aLVO (100/1114 [9%] women and 131/1244 [11%] men). The area under the curve of the scales ranged from 0.70 (95% CI, 0.65-0.75) to 0.77 (95% CI, 0.73-0.82) in women versus 0.69 (95% CI, 0.64-0.73) to 0.75 (95% CI, 0.71-0.79) in men. Positive predictive values ranged from 0.23 (95% CI, 0.20-0.27) to 0.29 (95% CI, 0.26-0.31) in women versus 0.29 (95% CI, 0.24-0.33) to 0.37 (95% CI, 0.32-0.43) in men. Negative predictive values were similar (0.95 [95% CI, 0.94-0.96] to 0.98 [95% CI, 0.97-0.98] in women versus 0.94 [95% CI, 0.93-0.95] to 0.96 [95% CI, 0.94-0.97] in men). Sensitivity of the scales was slightly higher in women than in men (0.53 [95% CI, 0.43-0.63] to 0.76 [95% CI, 0.68-0.84] versus 0.49 [95% CI, 0.40-0.57] to 0.63 [95% CI, 0.55-0.73]), whereas specificity was lower (0.79 [95% CI, 0.76-0.81] to 0.87 [95% CI, 0.84-0.89] versus 0.82 [95% CI, 0.79-0.84] to 0.90 [95% CI, 0.88-0.91]). Rapid arterial occlusion evaluation showed the highest positive predictive values in both sexes (0.29 in women and 0.37 in men), reflecting the different event rates. CONCLUSIONS: aLVO scales show similar diagnostic performance in both sexes. The rapid arterial occlusion evaluation scale may help optimize prehospital transport decision-making in men as well as in women with suspected stroke.
38414132 | Stromal Cell-Slit3/Cardiomyocyte-Robo1 Axis Regulates Pressure Overload-Induced Cardiac Hypertrophy. Recently shown to regulate cardiac development, the secreted axon guidance molecule SLIT3 maintains its expression in the postnatal heart. Despite its known expression in the cardiovascular system after birth, SLIT3's relevance to cardiovascular function in the postnatal state remains unknown. As such, the objectives of this study were to determine the postnatal myocardial sources of SLIT3 and to evaluate its functional role in regulating the cardiac response to pressure overload stress. We first found that SLIT3 transcription was increased in myocardial tissue obtained from patients with congenital heart defects that caused ventricular pressure overload. Immunostaining of hearts from wild type and reporter mice revealed that SLIT3 is secreted by cardiac stromal cells, namely, fibroblasts and vascular mural cells, within the heart. Conditioned media from cardiac fibroblasts and vascular mural cells both stimulated cardiomyocyte hypertrophy in vitro, an effect that was partially inhibited by an anti-SLIT3 antibody. Also, the N-terminal, but not the C-terminal, fragment of SLIT3 and the forced overexpression of SLIT3 stimulated cardiomyocyte hypertrophy and the transcription of hypertrophy-related genes. We next determined that ROBO1 was the most highly expressed roundabout receptor in cardiomyocytes and that ROBO1 mediated SLIT3's hypertrophic effects in vitro. In vivo, Tcf21+ fibroblast and Tbx18+ vascular mural cell-specific knockout of SLIT3 in mice resulted in decreased left ventricle hypertrophy and cardiac fibrosis after the transverse aortic constriction. Furthermore, alpha-MHC+ cardiomyocyte-specific deletion of ROBO1 also preserved left ventricle function and abrogated hypertrophy, but not fibrosis, after the transverse aortic constriction. Collectively, these results indicate a novel role for the SLIT3-ROBO1 signaling axis in regulating postnatal cardiomyocyte hypertrophy induced by pressure overload.
