23926326 | Identification of a phage-encoded Ig-binding protein from invasive Neisseria meningitidis. Ig-binding proteins are employed by a variety of organisms to evade the immune system. To our knowledge, we now report for the first time that meningococcal strains from several capsular groups exhibit Ig-binding activity that is dependent on human serum factors. A protein mediating Ig binding was identified as T and B cell-stimulating protein B (TspB) by immunoprecipitation and by mass spectroscopic analysis of tryptic peptides. Recombinant TspB and derivatives verified Ig binding, with a preference for human IgG2 Fc, and localized the IgG-binding region to a highly conserved subdomain of TspB. Antiserum produced in mice against the conserved subdomain detected the presence of TspB on the cell surface by flow cytometry when bacteria were grown in the presence of human serum. By fluorescence microscopy, we observed formation of an extracellular matrix having characteristics of a biofilm containing TspB, human IgG, DNA, and large aggregates of bacteria. TspB is encoded by gene ORF6 in prophage DNA, which others have shown is associated with invasive meningococcal strains. Knocking out ORF6 genes eliminated IgG binding and formation of large bacterial aggregates in biofilm. Reintroduction of a wild-type ORF6 gene by phage transduction restored the phenotype. The results show that TspB mediated IgG binding and aggregate/biofilm formation triggered by factors in human serum. As has been observed for other Ig-binding proteins, the activities mediated by TspB may provide protection against immune responses, which is in accordance with the association of prophage DNA carrying ORF6 with invasive meningococcal strains. 
24166928 | The Yersinia enterocolitica Ysa type III secretion system is expressed during infections both in vitro and in vivo. Yersinia enterocolitica biovar 1B maintains two type III secretion systems (T3SS) that are involved in pathogenesis, the plasmid encoded Ysc T3SS and the chromosomally encoded Ysa T3SS. In vitro, the Ysa T3SS has been shown to be expressed only at 26 C in a high-nutrient medium containing an exceptionally high concentration of salt - an artificial condition that provides no clear insight on the nature of signal that Y. enterocolitica responds to in a host. However, previous research has indicated that the Ysa system plays a role in the colonization of gastrointestinal tissues of mice. In this study, a series of Ysa promoter fusions to green fluorescent protein gene (gfp) were created to analyze the expression of this T3SS during infection. Using reporter strains, infections were carried out in vitro using HeLa cells and in vivo using the mouse model of yersiniosis. Expression of green fluorescent protein (GFP) was measured from the promoters of yspP (encoding a secreted effector protein) and orf6 (encoding a structural component of the T3SS apparatus) in vitro and in vivo. During the infection of HeLa cells GFP intensity was measured by fluorescence microscopy, while during murine infections GFP expression in tissues was measured by flow cytometry. These approaches, combined with quantification of yspP mRNA transcripts by quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), demonstrate that the Ysa system is expressed in vitro in a contact-dependent manner, and is expressed in vivo during infection of mice. 
24423464 | Mucosal and systemic immunity in mice after intranasal immunization with recombinant Lactococcus lactis expressing ORF6 of PRRSV. The purpose of the study was to construct mucosal vaccine of a recombinant Lactococcus lactis expressing PRRSV ORF6 gene and evaluate mucosal and systemic immune response against PRRSV in mice after intranasal immunization. The result show that the vaccine can stimulate mice to produce specific IgG in serum and remarkable special s-IgA in lung lavage fluid, at the same time, the contents of cytokines IL-2 and IFN-gamma of the experimental group were significant higher than those of the control group (P < 0.01), however, the contents of cytokines IL-4 was not different to the all groups. In summary, the constructed mucosal vaccine can significantly induce mucosal immune, humoral immunity and cellular immunity involved Th1 type cytokines, which will lay a theoretical foundation on immune mechanism and new efficient vaccines for PRRSV.
25037720 | Characterisation of novel linear antigen epitopes on North American-type porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus M protein. The M protein, encoded by the porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) ORF6 gene, is considered to be one of the most conserved PRRSV proteins. In recent decades, highly specific monoclonal antibodies (Mabs) have been exploited to provide reliable diagnoses for many diseases. In this study, two different Mab clones targeting the linear epitopes on the PRRSV M protein were generated and characterized. Both Mabs showed binding activity against the native PRRSV virion and recombinant M protein when analyzed by immunofluorescence assay (IFA) and Western blot. The targeted epitope of each Mab was mapped by serial truncation of the M protein to generate overlapping fragments. Fine epitope mapping was then performed using a panel of expressed polypeptides. The polypeptide sequences of the two epitopes recognized by Mabs 1C8 and 3F7 were (3)SSLD(6) and (155)VLGGRKAVK(163), respectively, with the former being a newly identified epitope on the M protein. In both cases, these two epitopes were finely mapped for the first time. Alignments of Mab epitope sequences revealed that the two epitopes on the M protein were highly conserved between the North American-type strains. These Mabs, along with their mapped epitopes, are useful for the development of diagnostic and research tools, including immunofluorescence, ELISA and Western blot.
26320399 | Phage display technique identifies the interaction of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus open reading frame 6 protein with nuclear pore complex interacting protein NPIPB3 in modulating Type I interferon antagonism. BACKGROUND/PURPOSE: Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) proteins including ORF6 inhibit Type I interferon (IFN) signaling. METHODS: This study identified SARS-CoV ORF6-interacting proteins using the phage displayed human lung cDNA libraries, and examined the association of ORF6-host factor interaction with Type I IFN antagonism. After the fifth round of biopanning with Escherichia coli-synthesized ORF6-His tagged protein, the relative binding affinity of phage clones to ORF6 was determined using direct enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. RESULTS: The highest affinity clone to ORF6 displayed the C-terminal domain of NPIPB3 (nuclear pore complex interacting protein family, member B3; also named as phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase-related kinase SMG-1 isoform 1 homolog). The coimmunoprecipitation assay demonstrated the direct binding of ORF6 to the C-terminal domain of NPIPB3 in vitro. Confocal imaging revealed a close colocalization of SARS-CoV ORF6 protein with NPIPB3 in human promonocytes. The dual luciferase reporter assay showed that the C-terminal domain of NPIPB3 attenuated the antagonistic activity of SARS-CoV ORF6 on IFN-beta-induced ISRE (IFN stimulated response element)-responsive firefly luciferase activity. In addition, confocal imaging and Western blotting assays revealed that the increases in STAT-1 nuclear translocation and phosphorylation occurred in the transfected cells expressing both genes of ORF6 and NPIPB3, but not in the ORF6-expressing cells in response to IFN-beta. CONCLUSION: The overexpression of NPIPB3 restored the IFN-beta responses in SARS-CoV ORF6 expressing cells, indicating that the interaction of SARS CoV ORF6 and NPIPB3 reduced Type I IFN antagonism by SARS-CoV ORF6.
27036372 | Non-conventional forms of HLA-B27 are expressed in spondyloarthritis joints and gut tissue. OBJECTIVES: Human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-B27 (B27) is the strongest genetic factor associated with development of Ankylosing Spondylitis and other spondyloarthropathies (SpA), yet the role it plays in disease pathogenesis remains unclear. We investigated the expression of potentially pathogenic non-conventional heavy chain forms (NC) of B27 in synovial and intestinal tissues obtained from SpA patients. We also determined the presence of NC-B27 in joints, lymphoid and gastrointestinal tissue from B27 transgenic (TG(1)) rats with M.tuberculosis-induced SpA. METHODS: Expression of NC-B27 in human SpA joints and gut and in (21-3 x 283-2)F1 HLA-B27/Hubeta2m rat tissue was determined by immunohistochemistry, flow cytometry and confocal microscopy analysis using HC10 and HD6 antibodies. RESULTS: Both HC10- and HD6-reactive HLA molecules were present in synovial tissue from SpA patients. Both NC-B27 and KIR3DL2, a ligand for NC-B27, were expressed in inflamed terminal ileal tissues in patients with early SpA. Infiltrating cells in inflamed joint tissues isolated from B27 TG(1) rats expressed high levels of NC-B27. NC-B27 were also expressed in joint-resident cells from ankle and tail joints of B27 TG(1) rats prior to clinical arthritis. The expression of NC-B27 on B27 TG(1) rat CD11b/c(+), CD8alpha(+), cells from spleens and LNs increased with animal age and disease progression. CONCLUSIONS: Non-conventional HLA class 1 molecules are expressed on resident and infiltrating cells in both synovial and GI tissues in human SpA. NC-B27 expression in joints and lymphoid tissues from B27 TG(1) rats prior to the onset of arthritis is consistent with the hypothesis that they play a pathogenic role in SpA.
28212352 | RTA Occupancy of the Origin of Lytic Replication during Murine Gammaherpesvirus 68 Reactivation from B Cell Latency. RTA, the viral Replication and Transcription Activator, is essential for rhadinovirus lytic gene expression upon de novo infection and reactivation from latency. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS)/toll-like receptor (TLR)4 engagement enhances rhadinovirus reactivation. We developed two new systems to examine the interaction of RTA with host NF-kappaB (NF-kappaB) signaling during murine gammaherpesvirus 68 (MHV68) infection: a latent B cell line (HE-RIT) inducible for RTA-Flag expression and virus reactivation; and a recombinant virus (MHV68-RTA-Bio) that enabled in vivo biotinylation of RTA in BirA transgenic mice. LPS acted as a second stimulus to drive virus reactivation from latency in the context of induced expression of RTA-Flag. ORF6, the gene encoding the single-stranded DNA binding protein, was one of many viral genes that were directly responsive to RTA induction; expression was further increased upon treatment with LPS. However, NF-kappaB sites in the promoter of ORF6 did not influence RTA transactivation in response to LPS in HE-RIT cells. We found no evidence for RTA occupancy of the minimal RTA-responsive region of the ORF6 promoter, yet RTA was found to complex with a portion of the right origin of lytic replication (oriLyt-R) that contains predicted RTA recognition elements. RTA occupancy of select regions of the MHV-68 genome was also evaluated in our novel in vivo RTA biotinylation system. Streptavidin isolation of RTA-Bio confirmed complex formation with oriLyt-R in LPS-treated primary splenocytes from BirA mice infected with MHV68 RTA-Bio. We demonstrate the utility of reactivation-inducible B cells coupled with in vivo RTA biotinylation for mechanistic investigations of the interplay of host signaling with RTA.
28506209 | Peptides mimicking viral proteins of porcine circovirus type 2 were profiled by the spectrum of mouse anti-PCV2 antibodies. BACKGROUND: Porcine circovirus 2 (PCV2) is a small, non-enveloped DNA virus causing swine lymphocyte depletion and severe impact on the swine industry. The aim of this study was to evaluate the antigenicity and immunogenicity of specific peptides, and seeking the potential candidate of PCV2 peptide-based vaccine. It's initiating from peptides reacting with PCV2-infected pig sera and peptide-immunized mouse sera. RESULTS: The data showed that the sera from PCV2-infected pigs could react with the N-terminal (C1), middle region (C2), and C-terminal peptide (C3) of PCV2 capsid protein (CP), ORF3 protein (N1), ORF6 protein (N2) and ORF9 protein (N3). This study demonstrated that anti-PCV2 mouse antisera could be generated by specific synthetic peptides (C3 and N2) and recognized PCV2 viral protein. We found that the tertiary or linear form C-terminal sequence (C3) of PCV2 capsid peptide only appeared a local distribution in the nucleus of PCV2-infected PK cells, virus-like particles of PCV2 major appeared a local distribution in the cytoplasm, and ORF 6 protein of PCV2 were shown unusually in cytoplasm. Furthermore, most residues of the C1 and the C3 were presented on the surface of PCV2 CP, in the view of 3-D structure of the CP. Our data demonstrated that PCV2-infected pigs had higher OD405 value of anti-C3 IgG on Day 1, Month 3 and Month 6 than in Month 1. These pigs had higher anti-C3 IgM level in Month 3 and Month 6 than on Day 1 (P < 0.01). CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrated that the key peptide (C3) mimic the C-terminal of PCV2 capsid protein which were capable of inducing antibodies. The specific antibody against the C3 were confirmed as the serological marker in PCV2-infected pigs.
31108113 | A rapid strategy for constructing novel simian adenovirus vectors with high viral titer and expressing highly antigenic proteins applicable for vaccine development. Adenoviral vectors have been widely used for the development of infectious disease vaccines. However, the challenge of human adenoviral vector rooted from the predominant adenovirus serotype 5 strain limiting its usefulness by the widespread pre-existing neutralizing antibodies in recipients. To circumvent this obstacle, we generated an ad-hoc adenovirus vector in human or primates. Here, a chimeric simian adenoviral vector Sad23 was constructed consisting in deleting of E1 and E3 regions of the full-length simian adenovirus serotype 23 genome (SAdV23) by Gibson assembly. To improve Sad23 virus propagating efficiency, the E4 region open reading frame 6 (orf6) was replaced by the corresponding element of human adenovirus type 5 (Ad5), designated Sad23L. The procedure for cloning this novel vector took a single week, and recombinant adenovirus was packaged with high titer in HEK293 cells. To verify the ability of this novel adenoviral vector to deliver foreign genes, Zika virus (ZIKV) prM-E genes were used as target genes for antigen expression. Recombinant adenoviruses Sad23L-prM-E, Sad23-prM-E and Ad5-prM-E were intramuscularly inoculated into Ad5-eGFP none pre-exposed or pre-exposed mice, and the immune response to ZIKV prM-E was compared between vectors. Sad23L-prM-E induced a fairly robust immune response and maintained immunogenicity in Ad5 pre-exposed mice, which suggested that Ad5 pre-existing immunity did not affect Sad23L-prM-E immunization. These preliminary results suggest that the proposed rapid strategy was effective in constructing a new adenoviral vector platform (Sad23 L) usable for the development of human vaccines.
33037393 | An aberrant STAT pathway is central to COVID-19. COVID-19 is caused by SARS-CoV-2 infection and characterized by diverse clinical symptoms. Type I interferon (IFN-I) production is impaired and severe cases lead to ARDS and widespread coagulopathy. We propose that COVID-19 pathophysiology is initiated by SARS-CoV-2 gene products, the NSP1 and ORF6 proteins, leading to a catastrophic cascade of failures. These viral components induce signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) dysfunction and compensatory hyperactivation of STAT3. In SARS-CoV-2-infected cells, a positive feedback loop established between STAT3 and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) may lead to an escalating cycle of activation in common with the interdependent signaling networks affected in COVID-19. Specifically, PAI-1 upregulation leads to coagulopathy characterized by intravascular thrombi. Overproduced PAI-1 binds to TLR4 on macrophages, inducing the secretion of proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines. The recruitment and subsequent activation of innate immune cells within an infected lung drives the destruction of lung architecture, which leads to the infection of regional endothelial cells and produces a hypoxic environment that further stimulates PAI-1 production. Acute lung injury also activates EGFR and leads to the phosphorylation of STAT3. COVID-19 patients' autopsies frequently exhibit diffuse alveolar damage (DAD) and increased hyaluronan (HA) production which also leads to higher levels of PAI-1. COVID-19 risk factors are consistent with this scenario, as PAI-1 levels are increased in hypertension, obesity, diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, and old age. We discuss the possibility of using various approved drugs, or drugs currently in clinical development, to treat COVID-19. This perspective suggests to enhance STAT1 activity and/or inhibit STAT3 functions for COVID-19 treatment. This might derail the escalating STAT3/PAI-1 cycle central to COVID-19.
33124193 | Transcriptomic analysis reveals novel mechanisms of SARS-CoV-2 infection in human lung cells. BACKGROUND: Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus clade 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is a single-stranded RNA virus responsible for the global pandemic of the coronavirus disease-2019 (COVID-19). To date, there are still no effective approaches for the prevention and treatment of COVID-19. OBJECTIVE: The present study aims to explore the possible mechanisms of SARS-CoV-2 infection in human lung cells. METHODS: Data interpretation was conducted by recruiting bioinformatics analysis, including Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathways analysis using downloaded data from the NCBI Gene Expression Omnibus database. RESULTS: The present study demonstrated that SARS-CoV-2 infection induces the upregulation of 14 interferon-stimulated genes, indicative of immune, and interferon responses to the virus. Notably, genes for pyrimidine metabolism and steroid hormone biosynthesis are selectively enriched in human lung cells after SARS-CoV-2 infection, suggesting that altered pyrimidine metabolism and steroid biosynthesis are remarkable, and perhaps druggable features after SARS-CoV-2 infection. Besides, there is a strong positive correlation between viral ORF1ab, ORF6, and angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) expression in human lung cells, implying that ACE2 facilitates SARS-CoV-2 infection and replication in host cells probably through the induction of ORF1ab and ORF6.
33980688 | Critical Determinants of Cytokine Storm and Type I Interferon Response in COVID-19 Pathogenesis. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) causes coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), a rapidly evolving pandemic worldwide with at least 68 million COVID-19-positive cases and a mortality rate of about 2.2%, as of 10 December 2020. About 20% of COVID-19 patients exhibit moderate to severe symptoms. Severe COVID-19 manifests as acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) with elevated plasma proinflammatory cytokines, including interleukin 1beta (IL-1beta), IL-6, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10 (CXCL10/IP10), macrophage inflammatory protein 1 alpha (MIP-1alpha), and chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 2 (CCL2), with low levels of interferon type I (IFN-I) in the early stage and elevated levels of IFN-I during the advanced stage of COVID-19. Most of the severe and critically ill COVID-19 patients have had preexisting comorbidities, including hypertension, diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, and respiratory diseases. These conditions are known to perturb the levels of cytokines, chemokines, and angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), an essential receptor involved in SARS-CoV-2 entry into the host cells. ACE2 downregulation during SARS-CoV-2 infection activates the angiotensin II/angiotensin receptor (AT1R)-mediated hypercytokinemia and hyperinflammatory syndrome. However, several SARS-CoV-2 proteins, including open reading frame 3b (ORF3b), ORF6, ORF7, ORF8, and the nucleocapsid (N) protein, can inhibit IFN type I and II (IFN-I and -II) production. Thus, hyperinflammation, in combination with the lack of IFN responses against SARS-CoV-2 early on during infection, makes the patients succumb rapidly to COVID-19. Therefore, therapeutic approaches involving anti-cytokine/anti-cytokine-signaling and IFN therapy would favor the disease prognosis in COVID-19. This review describes critical host and viral factors underpinning the inflammatory \cytokine storm\ induction and IFN antagonism during COVID-19 pathogenesis. Therapeutic approaches to reduce hyperinflammation and their limitations are also discussed.
34133899 | Contribution of SARS-CoV-2 Accessory Proteins to Viral Pathogenicity in K18 Human ACE2 Transgenic Mice. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is the viral pathogen responsible for the current coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic. As of 19 May 2021, John Hopkins University's COVID-19 tracking platform reported 3.3 million deaths associated with SARS-CoV-2 infection. Currently, the World Health Organization has granted emergency use listing (EUL) to six COVID-19 vaccine candidates. However, much of the pathogenesis observed during SARS-CoV-2 infection remains elusive. To gain insight into the contribution of individual accessory open reading frame (ORF) proteins in SARS-CoV-2 pathogenesis, we used our recently described reverse-genetics system approach to successfully engineer recombinant SARS-CoV-2 (rSARS-CoV-2) constructs; we removed individual viral ORF3a, -6, -7a, -7b, and -8 proteins from them, and we characterized the resulting recombinant viruses in vitro and in vivo. Our results indicate differences in plaque morphology, with ORF-deficient (DeltaORF) viruses producing smaller plaques than those of the wild type (rSARS-CoV-2/WT). However, growth kinetics of DeltaORF viruses were like those of rSARS-CoV-2/WT. Interestingly, infection of K18 human angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (hACE2) transgenic mice with the DeltaORF rSARS-CoV-2s identified ORF3a and ORF6 as the major contributors of viral pathogenesis, while DeltaORF7a, DeltaORF7b, and DeltaORF8 rSARS-CoV-2s induced pathology comparable to that of rSARS-CoV-2/WT. This study demonstrates the robustness of our reverse-genetics system to generate rSARS-CoV-2 constructs and the major role for ORF3a and ORF6 in viral pathogenesis, providing important information for the generation of attenuated forms of SARS-CoV-2 for their implementation as live attenuated vaccines for the treatment of SARS-CoV-2 infection and associated COVID-19. IMPORTANCE Despite great efforts put forward worldwide to combat the current coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) continues to be a human health and socioeconomic threat. Insights into the pathogenesis of SARS-CoV-2 and the contribution of viral proteins to disease outcome remain elusive. Our study aims (i) to determine the contribution of SARS-CoV-2 accessory open reading frame (ORF) proteins to viral pathogenesis and disease outcome and (ii) to develop a synergistic platform combining our robust reverse-genetics system to generate recombinant SARS-CoV-2 constructs with a validated rodent model of infection and disease. We demonstrate that SARS-CoV-2 ORF3a and ORF6 contribute to lung pathology and ultimately disease outcome in K18 hACE2 transgenic mice, while ORF7a, ORF7b, and ORF8 have little impact on disease outcome. Moreover, our combinatory platform serves as a foundation for generating attenuated forms of the virus to develop live attenuated vaccines for the treatment of SARS-CoV-2.
34352457 | An in-depth in silico and immunoinformatics approach for designing a potential multi-epitope construct for the effective development of vaccine to combat against SARS-CoV-2 encompassing variants of concern and interest. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is the latest of the several viral pathogens that have acted as a threat to human health around the world. Thus, to prevent COVID-19 and control the outbreak, the development of vaccines against SARS-CoV-2 is one of the most important strategies at present. The study aimed to design a multi-epitope vaccine (MEV) against SARS-CoV-2. For the development of a more effective vaccine, 1549 nucleotide sequences were taken into consideration, including the variants of concern (B.1.1.7, B.1.351, P.1 and, B.1.617.2) and variants of interest (B.1.427, B.1.429, B.1.526, B.1.617.1 and P.2). A total of 11 SARS-CoV-2 proteins (S, N, E, M, ORF1ab polyprotein, ORF3a, ORF6, ORF7a, ORF7b, ORF8, ORF10) were targeted for T-cell epitope prediction and S protein was targeted for B-cell epitope prediction. MEV was constructed using linkers and adjuvant beta-defensin. The vaccine construct was verified, based on its antigenicity, physicochemical properties, and its binding potential, with toll-like receptors (TLR2, TLR4), ACE2 receptor and B cell receptor. The selected vaccine construct showed considerable binding with all the receptors and a significant immune response, including elevated antibody titer and B cell population along with augmented activity of TH cells, Tc cells and NK cells. Thus, immunoinformatics and in silico-based approaches were used for constructing MEV which is capable of eliciting both innate and adaptive immunity. In conclusion, the vaccine construct developed in this study has all the potential for the development of a next-generation vaccine which may in turn effectively combat the new variants of SARS-CoV-2 identified so far. However, in vitro and animal studies are warranted to justify our findings for its utility as probable preventive measure.
34484133 | SARS-CoV-2 Accessory Protein ORF7b Mediates Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha-Induced Apoptosis in Cells. The accessory proteins of coronaviruses are essential for virus-host interactions and the modulation of host immune responses. It has been reported that accessory protein ORF3a encoded by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) can induce apoptosis, and accessory protein ORF6 and ORF8 could be inhibitors of the type-I interferon (IFN) signaling pathway. However, the function of accessory protein ORF7b is largely unknown. We investigated the apoptosis-inducing activity of ORF7b in cells. Cytokine levels and host innate immune responses, including expression of interferon regulatory transcription factor (IRF)-3, signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT)-1, interferon (IFN)-beta, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, and interleukin (IL)-6, were also investigated. We found that ORF7b promoted expression of IFN-beta, TNF-alpha, and IL-6, activated type-I IFN signaling through IRF3 phosphorylation, and activated TNFalpha-induced apoptosis in HEK293T cells and Vero E6 cells. These results could provide deeper understanding about the pathogenicity of SARS-CoV-2 as well as the interaction between the accessory protein ORF7b with host immune responses.
34782627 | SARS-CoV-2 inhibits induction of the MHC class I pathway by targeting the STAT1-IRF1-NLRC5 axis. The MHC class I-mediated antigen presentation pathway plays a critical role in antiviral immunity. Here we show that the MHC class I pathway is targeted by SARS-CoV-2. Analysis of the gene expression profile from COVID-19 patients as well as SARS-CoV-2 infected epithelial cell lines reveals that the induction of the MHC class I pathway is inhibited by SARS-CoV-2 infection. We show that NLRC5, an MHC class I transactivator, is suppressed both transcriptionally and functionally by the SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 protein, providing a mechanistic link. SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 hampers type II interferon-mediated STAT1 signaling, resulting in diminished upregulation of NLRC5 and IRF1 gene expression. Moreover, SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 inhibits NLRC5 function via blocking karyopherin complex-dependent nuclear import of NLRC5. Collectively, our study uncovers an immune evasion mechanism of SARS-CoV-2 that targets the function of key MHC class I transcriptional regulators, STAT1-IRF1-NLRC5.
34786565 | All hands on deck: SARS-CoV-2 proteins that block early anti-viral interferon responses. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection is responsible for the current pandemic coronavirus disease of 2019 (COVID-19). Like other pathogens, SARS-CoV-2 infection can elicit production of the type I and III interferon (IFN) cytokines by the innate immune response. A rapid and robust type I and III IFN response can curb viral replication and improve clinical outcomes of SARS-CoV-2 infection. To effectively replicate in the host, SARS-CoV-2 has evolved mechanisms for evasion of this innate immune response, which could also modulate COVID-19 pathogenesis. In this review, we discuss studies that have reported the identification and characterization of SARS-CoV-2 proteins that inhibit type I IFNs. We focus especially on the mechanisms of nsp1 and ORF6, which are the two most potent and best studied SARS-CoV-2 type I IFN inhibitors. We also discuss naturally occurring mutations in these SARS-CoV-2 IFN antagonists and the impact of these mutations in vitro and on clinical presentation. As SARS-CoV-2 continues to spread and evolve, researchers will have the opportunity to study natural mutations in IFN antagonists and assess their role in disease. Additional studies that look more closely at previously identified antagonists and newly arising mutants may inform future therapeutic interventions for COVID-19.
34968862 | Comparative mutational analysis of SARS-CoV-2 isolates from Pakistan and structural-functional implications using computational modelling and simulation approaches. SARS-CoV-2, an RNA virus, has been prone to high mutations since its first emergence in Wuhan, China, and throughout its spread. Its genome has been sequenced continuously by many countries, including Pakistan, but the results vary. Understanding its genomic patterns and connecting them with phenotypic features will help in devising therapeutic strategies. Thus, in this study, we explored the mutation landscape of 250 Pakistani isolates of SARS-CoV-2 genomes to check the genome diversity and examine the impact of these mutations on protein stability and viral pathogenesis in comparison with a reference sequence (Wuhan NC 045512.2). Our results revealed that structural proteins mainly exhibit more mutations than others in the Pakistani isolates; in particular, the nucleocapsid protein is highly mutated. In comparison, the spike protein is the most mutated protein globally. Furthermore, nsp12 was found to be the most mutated NSP in the Pakistani isolates and worldwide. Regarding accessory proteins, ORF3A is the most mutated in the Pakistani isolates, whereas ORF8 is highly mutated in world isolates. These mutations decrease the structural stability of their proteins and alter different biological pathways. Molecular docking, the dissociation constant (KD), and MM/GBSA analysis showed that mutations in the S protein alter its binding with ACE2. The spike protein mutations D614G-S943T-V622F (-75.17 kcal/mol), D614G-Q677H (-75.78 kcal/mol), and N74K-D614G (-73.84 kcal/mol) exhibit stronger binding energy than the wild type (-66.34 kcal/mol), thus increasing infectivity. Furthermore, the simulation results strongly corroborated the predicted protein servers. Our analysis findings also showed that E, M, ORF6, ORF7A, ORF7B, and ORF10 are the most stable coding genes; they may be suitable targets for vaccine and drug development.
35285681 | Mouse Adenovirus Type 1 E4orf6 Induces PKR Degradation. Protein kinase R (PKR) is a cellular kinase involved in the antiviral response. The inactivation or inhibition of this protein is a conserved activity in DNA and RNA virus infections. In contrast to human adenovirus type 5, mouse adenovirus type 1 (MAV-1) inhibits PKR activity through proteasome-dependent degradation. However, the molecular mechanism by which this process takes place is not fully understood. We investigated whether ubiquitination, MAV-1 early region 1B 55k (E1B 55k), and early region 4 orf6 (E4orf6) play a role in PKR degradation in MAV-1 infection, because the enzyme 3 (E3) ubiquitin ligase activity with these viral proteins is conserved among the Adenoviridae family. We provide evidence that E4orf6 is sufficient to induce mouse PKR degradation and that proteasome pathway inhibition blocks PKR degradation. Inhibition of neddylation of cullin, a component of E3 ubiquitin ligase complex, blocked efficient PKR degradation in MAV-1-infected cells. Finally, we demonstrated that MAV-1 degradation of PKR is specific for mouse PKR. These results indicate that counteracting PKR is mechanistically different in two species of adenoviruses. IMPORTANCE Viruses have evolved to counteract the immune system to successfully replicate in the host. Downregulation of several antiviral proteins is important for productive viral infection. Protein kinase R (PKR) is an antiviral protein that belongs to the first line of defense of the host. Because PKR senses dsRNA and blocks the cellular translation process during viral infections, it is not surprising that many viruses counteract this antiviral activity. We previously reported PKR degradation during mouse adenovirus type 1 (MAV-1) infection; however, the molecular mechanism of this activity was not fully known. This work provides evidence about the MAV-1 protein that induces PKR degradation and expands knowledge about involvement of the proteasome pathway.
35313573 | Immunization with recombinant accessory protein-deficient SARS-CoV-2 protects against lethal challenge and viral transmission. Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has led to a worldwide Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic. Despite high efficacy of the authorized vaccines, protection against the surging variants of concern (VoC) was less robust. Live-attenuated vaccines (LAV) have been shown to elicit robust and long-term protection by induction of host innate and adaptive immune responses. We sought to develop a COVID-19 LAV by generating 3 double open reading frame (ORF)-deficient recombinant (r)SARS-CoV-2 simultaneously lacking two accessory open reading frame (ORF) proteins (ORF3a/ORF6, ORF3a/ORF7a, and ORF3a/ORF7b). Here, we report that these double ORF-deficient rSARS-CoV-2 have slower replication kinetics and reduced fitness in cultured cells as compared to their parental wild-type (WT) counterpart. Importantly, these double ORF-deficient rSARS-CoV-2 showed attenuation in both K18 hACE2 transgenic mice and golden Syrian hamsters. A single intranasal dose vaccination induced high levels of neutralizing antibodies against different SARS-CoV-2 VoC, and also activated viral component-specific T-cell responses. Notably, the double ORF-deficient rSARS-CoV-2 were able to protect, as determined by inhibition of viral replication, shedding, and transmission, against challenge with SARS-CoV-2. Collectively, our results demonstrate the feasibility to implement these double ORF-deficient rSARS-CoV-2 as safe, stable, immunogenic and protective LAV for the prevention of SARS-CoV-2 infection and associated COVID-19 disease.
35399222 | The status and analysis of common mutations found in the SARS-CoV-2 whole genome sequences from Bangladesh. Rapid emergence of covid-19 variants by continuous mutation made the world experience continuous waves of infections and as a result, a huge number of death-toll recorded so far. It is, therefore, very important to investigate the diversity and nature of the mutations in the SARS-CoV-2 genomes. In this study, the common mutations occurred in the whole genome sequences of SARS-CoV-2 variants of Bangladesh in a certain timeline were analyzed to better understand its status. Hence, a total of 78 complete genome sequences available in the NCBI database were obtained, aligned and further analyzed. Scattered Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) were identified throughout the genome of variants and common SNPs such as: 241:C>T in the 5'UTR of Open Reading Frame 1A (ORF1A), 3037: C>T in Non-structural Protein 3 (NSP3), 14,408: C>T in ORF6 and 23,402: A>G, 23,403: A>G in Spike Protein (S) were observed, but all of them were synonymous mutations. About 97% of the studied genomes showed a block of tri-nucleotide alteration (GGG>AAC), the most common non-synonymous mutation in the 28,881-28,883 location of the genome. This block results in two amino acid changes (203-204: RG>KR) in the SR rich motif of the nucleocapsid (N) protein of SARS-CoV-2, introducing a lysine in between serine and arginine. The N protein structure of the mutant was predicted through protein modeling. However, no observable difference was found between the mutant and the reference (Wuhan) protein. Further, the protein stability changes upon mutations were analyzed using the I-Mutant2.0 tool. The alteration of the arginine to lysine at the amino acid position 203, showed reduction of entropy, suggesting a possible impact on the overall stability of the N protein. The estimation of the non-synonymous to synonymous substitution ratio (dN/dS) were analyzed for the common mutations and the results showed that the overall mean distance among the N-protein variants were statistically significant, supporting the non-synonymous nature of the mutations. The phylogenetic analysis of the selected 78 genomes, compared with the most common genomic variants of this virus across the globe showed a distinct cluster for the analyzed Bangladeshi sequences. Further studies are warranted for conferring any plausible association of these mutations with the clinical manifestation.
35746745 | Nucleopore Traffic Is Hindered by SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 Protein to Efficiently Suppress IFN-beta and IL-6 Secretion. A weak production of INF-beta along with an exacerbated release of pro-inflammatory cytokines have been reported during infection by the novel SARS-CoV-2 virus. SARS-CoV-2 encodes several proteins that are able to counteract the host immune system, which is believed to be one of the most important features contributing to the viral pathogenesis and development of a severe clinical outcomes. Previous reports demonstrated that the SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 protein strongly suppresses INF-beta production by hindering the RIG-I, MDA-5, and MAVS signaling cascade. In the present study, we better characterized the mechanism by which the SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 counteracts IFN-beta and interleukin-6 (IL-6), which plays a crucial role in the inflammation process associated with the viral infection. In the present study, we demonstrated that the SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 protein has evolved an alternative mechanism to guarantee host IFN-beta and IL-6 suppression, in addition to the transcriptional control exerted on the genes. Indeed, a block in movement through the nucleopore of newly synthetized messenger RNA encoding the immune-modulatory cytokines IFN-beta and IL-6 are reported here. The ORF6 accessory protein of SARS-CoV-2 displays a multifunctional activity and may represent one of the most important virulence factors. Where conventional antagonistic strategies of immune evasion-such as the suppression of specific transcription factors (e.g., IRF-3, STAT-1/2)-would not be sufficient, the SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 protein is the trump card for the virus, also blocking the movement of IFN-beta and IL-6 mRNAs from nucleus to cytoplasm. Conversely, we showed that nuclear translocation of the NF-kappaB transcription factor is not affected by the ORF6 protein, although inhibition of its cytoplasmic activation occurred. Therefore, the ORF6 protein exerts a 360-degree inhibition of the antiviral response by blocking as many critical points as possible.
36003396 | Roles and functions of SARS-CoV-2 proteins in host immune evasion. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) evades the host immune system through a variety of regulatory mechanisms. The genome of SARS-CoV-2 encodes 16 non-structural proteins (NSPs), four structural proteins, and nine accessory proteins that play indispensable roles to suppress the production and signaling of type I and III interferons (IFNs). In this review, we discussed the functions and the underlying mechanisms of different proteins of SARS-CoV-2 that evade the host immune system by suppressing the IFN-beta production and TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1)/interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3)/signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT)1 and STAT2 phosphorylation. We also described different viral proteins inhibiting the nuclear translocation of IRF3, nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB), and STATs. To date, the following proteins of SARS-CoV-2 including NSP1, NSP6, NSP8, NSP12, NSP13, NSP14, NSP15, open reading frame (ORF)3a, ORF6, ORF8, ORF9b, ORF10, and Membrane (M) protein have been well studied. However, the detailed mechanisms of immune evasion by NSP5, ORF3b, ORF9c, and Nucleocapsid (N) proteins are not well elucidated. Additionally, we also elaborated the perspectives of SARS-CoV-2 proteins.
36110222 | In silico prediction of the animal susceptibility and virtual screening of natural compounds against SARS-CoV-2: Molecular dynamics simulation based analysis. COVID-19 is an infectious disease caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. It has six open reading frames (orf1ab, orf3a, orf6, orf7a, orf8, and orf10), a spike protein, a membrane protein, an envelope small membrane protein, and a nucleocapsid protein, out of which, orf1ab is the largest ORF coding different important non-structural proteins. In this study, an effort was made to evaluate the susceptibility of different animals against SARS-CoV-2 by analyzing the interactions of Spike and ACE2 proteins of the animals and propose a list of potential natural compounds binding to orf1ab of SARS-CoV-2. Here, we analyzed structural interactions between spike proteins of SARS-CoV-2 and the ACE2 receptor of 16 different hosts. A simulation for 50 ns was performed on these complexes. Based on post-simulation analysis, Chelonia mydas was found to have a more stable complex, while Bubalus bubalis, Aquila chrysaetos chrysaetos, Crocodylus porosus, and Loxodonta africana were found to have the least stable complexes with more fluctuations than all other organisms. Apart from that, we performed domain assignment of orf1ab of SARS-CoV-2 and identified 14 distinct domains. Out of these, Domain 3 (DNA/RNA polymerases) was selected as a target, as it showed no similarities with host proteomes and was validated in silico. Then, the top 10 molecules were selected from the virtual screening of ~1.8 lakh molecules from the ZINC database, based on binding energy, and validated for ADME and toxicological properties. Three molecules were selected and analyzed further. The structural analysis showed that these molecules were residing within the pocket of the receptor. Finally, a simulation for 200 ns was performed on complexes with three selected molecules. Based on post-simulation analysis (RMSD, RMSF, Rg, SASA, and energies), the molecule ZINC000103666966 was found as the most suitable inhibitory compound against Domain 3. As this is an in silico prediction, further experimental studies could unravel the potential of the proposed molecule against SARS-CoV-2.
36238716 | A neonatal mouse model characterizes transmissibility of SARS-CoV-2 variants and reveals a role for ORF8. Small animal models have been a challenge for the study of SARS-CoV-2 transmission, with most investigators using golden hamsters or ferrets 1, 2 . Mice have the advantages of low cost, wide availability, less regulatory and husbandry challenges, and the existence of a versatile reagent and genetic toolbox. However, adult mice do not robustly transmit SARS-CoV-2 3 . Here we establish a model based on neonatal mice that allows for transmission of clinical SARS-CoV-2 isolates. We characterize tropism, respiratory tract replication and transmission of ancestral WA-1 compared to variants Alpha (B.1.1.7), Beta (B.1.351), Gamma (P.1), Delta (B.1.617.2), Omicron BA.1 and Omicron BQ.1.1. We identify inter-variant differences in timing and magnitude of infectious particle shedding from index mice, both of which shape transmission to contact mice. Furthermore, we characterize two recombinant SARS-CoV-2 lacking either the ORF6 or ORF8 host antagonists. The removal of ORF8 shifts viral replication towards the lower respiratory tract, resulting in significantly delayed and reduced transmission in our model. Our results demonstrate the potential of our neonatal mouse model to characterize viral and host determinants of SARS-CoV-2 transmission, while revealing for the first time a role for an accessory protein in this context.
36386655 | A novel T4- and lambda-based receptor binding protein family for bacteriophage therapy host range engineering. Widespread multidrug antimicrobial resistance in emerging pathogens has led to a renewed interest in phage therapy as an alternative or supplement to traditional small molecule drugs. The primary limiting factors of phage therapy deployment rest in the narrow host range specificity of phage as well as a poor understanding of many phages' unintended downstream effects on host physiology and microbiota as well as on adverse pathogen evolution. Consequently, this has made assembling well-defined and safe \phage-cocktails\ of solely naturally occurring phages labor- and time-intensive. To increase the speed, efficacy, and safety of therapeutic deployment, there is exceptional interest in modulating the host ranges of well-characterized lytic phages (e.g., T4 and T7) by using synthetic strategies to the swap phage tail components, the receptor binding proteins (RBPs) key for host specificity. Here we identify the RBP of the Citrobacter rodentium temperate phage PhiNP as ORF6. Through bioinformatic and phylogenetic assays, we demonstrate this RBP to be closely related to the known RBPs of T4 and lambda. Further investigation reveals a novel, greater than 200 members RBP family with phages targeting several notable human pathogens, including Klebsiella pneumoniae, Escherichia coli O157:H7, Salmonella spp., and Shigella spp. With well characterized lytic members, this RBP family represents an ideal candidate for use in synthetic strategies for expanding therapeutic phage host ranges.
36478862 | Manipulation of innate immune signaling pathways by SARS-CoV-2 non-structural proteins. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), the causative agent of the current coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, induces an unbalanced immune response in the host. For instance, the production of type I interferon (IFN) and the response to it, which act as a front-line defense against virus invasion, are inhibited during SARS-CoV-2 infection. In addition, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), a proinflammatory cytokine, is upregulated in COVID-19 patients with severe symptoms. Studies on the closely related betacoronavirus, SARS-CoV, showed that viral proteins such as Nsp1, Orf6 and nucleocapsid protein inhibit IFN-beta production and responses at multiple steps. Given the conservation of these proteins between SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2, it is not surprising that SARS-CoV-2 deploys similar immune evasion strategies. Here, we carried out a screen to examine the role of individual SARS-CoV-2 proteins in regulating innate immune signaling, such as the activation of transcription factors IRF3 and NF-kappaB and the response to type I and type II IFN. In addition to established roles of SARS-CoV-2 proteins, we report that SARS-CoV-2 proteins Nsp6 and Orf8 inhibit the type I IFN response but at different stages. Orf6 blocks the translocation of STAT1 and STAT2 into the nucleus, whereas ORF8 inhibits the pathway in the nucleus after STAT1/2 translocation. SARS-CoV-2 Orf6 also suppresses IRF3 activation and TNF-alpha-induced NF-kappaB activation.
36894671 | SARS-CoV-2 infection induces DNA damage, through CHK1 degradation and impaired 53BP1 recruitment, and cellular senescence. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is the RNA virus responsible for the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic. Although SARS-CoV-2 was reported to alter several cellular pathways, its impact on DNA integrity and the mechanisms involved remain unknown. Here we show that SARS-CoV-2 causes DNA damage and elicits an altered DNA damage response. Mechanistically, SARS-CoV-2 proteins ORF6 and NSP13 cause degradation of the DNA damage response kinase CHK1 through proteasome and autophagy, respectively. CHK1 loss leads to deoxynucleoside triphosphate (dNTP) shortage, causing impaired S-phase progression, DNA damage, pro-inflammatory pathways activation and cellular senescence. Supplementation of deoxynucleosides reduces that. Furthermore, SARS-CoV-2 N-protein impairs 53BP1 focal recruitment by interfering with damage-induced long non-coding RNAs, thus reducing DNA repair. Key observations are recapitulated in SARS-CoV-2-infected mice and patients with COVID-19. We propose that SARS-CoV-2, by boosting ribonucleoside triphosphate levels to promote its replication at the expense of dNTPs and by hijacking damage-induced long non-coding RNAs' biology, threatens genome integrity and causes altered DNA damage response activation, induction of inflammation and cellular senescence.
37191507 | Immunization with Recombinant Accessory Protein-Deficient SARS-CoV-2 Protects against Lethal Challenge and Viral Transmission. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has led to a worldwide coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic. Despite the high efficacy of the authorized vaccines, there may be uncertain and unknown side effects or disadvantages associated with current vaccination approaches. Live-attenuated vaccines (LAVs) have been shown to elicit robust and long-term protection by the induction of host innate and adaptive immune responses. In this study, we sought to verify an attenuation strategy by generating 3 double open reading frame (ORF)-deficient recombinant SARS-CoV-2s (rSARS-CoV-2s) simultaneously lacking two accessory ORF proteins (ORF3a/ORF6, ORF3a/ORF7a, and ORF3a/ORF7b). We report that these double ORF-deficient rSARS-CoV-2s have slower replication kinetics and reduced fitness in cultured cells compared with their parental wild-type (WT) counterpart. Importantly, these double ORF-deficient rSARS-CoV-2s showed attenuation in both K18 hACE2 transgenic mice and golden Syrian hamsters. A single intranasal dose vaccination induced high levels of neutralizing antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 and some variants of concern and activated viral component-specific T cell responses. Notably, double ORF-deficient rSARS-CoV-2s were able to protect, as determined by the inhibition of viral replication, shedding, and transmission, against challenge with SARS-CoV-2 in both K18 hACE2 mice and golden Syrian hamsters. Collectively, our results demonstrate the feasibility of implementing the double ORF-deficient strategy to develop safe, immunogenic, and protective LAVs to prevent SARS-CoV-2 infection and associated COVID-19. IMPORTANCE Live-attenuated vaccines (LAVs) are able to induce robust immune responses, including both humoral and cellular immunity, representing a very promising option to provide broad and long-term immunity. To develop LAVs for SARS-CoV-2, we engineered attenuated recombinant SARS-CoV-2 (rSARS-CoV-2) that simultaneously lacks the viral open reading frame 3a (ORF3a) in combination with either ORF6, ORF7a, or ORF7b (Delta3a/Delta6, Delta3a/Delta7a, and Delta3a/Delta7b, respectively) proteins. Among them, the rSARS-CoV-2 Delta3a/Delta7b was completely attenuated and able to provide 100% protection against an otherwise lethal challenge in K18 hACE2 transgenic mice. Moreover, the rSARS-CoV-2 Delta3a/Delta7b conferred protection against viral transmission between golden Syrian hamsters.
37230979 | A neonatal mouse model characterizes transmissibility of SARS-CoV-2 variants and reveals a role for ORF8. Small animal models have been a challenge for the study of SARS-CoV-2 transmission, with most investigators using golden hamsters or ferrets. Mice have the advantages of low cost, wide availability, less regulatory and husbandry challenges, and the existence of a versatile reagent and genetic toolbox. However, adult mice do not robustly transmit SARS-CoV-2. Here we establish a model based on neonatal mice that allows for transmission of clinical SARS-CoV-2 isolates. We characterize tropism, respiratory tract replication and transmission of ancestral WA-1 compared to variants Alpha (B.1.1.7), Beta (B.1.351), Gamma (P.1), Delta (B.1.617.2), Omicron BA.1 and Omicron BQ.1.1. We identify inter-variant differences in timing and magnitude of infectious particle shedding from index mice, both of which shape transmission to contact mice. Furthermore, we characterize two recombinant SARS-CoV-2 lacking either the ORF6 or ORF8 host antagonists. The removal of ORF8 shifts viral replication towards the lower respiratory tract, resulting in significantly delayed and reduced transmission in our model. Our results demonstrate the potential of our neonatal mouse model to characterize viral and host determinants of SARS-CoV-2 transmission, while revealing a role for an accessory protein in this context.
37621704 | Natural selection shapes the evolution of SARS-CoV-2 Omicron in Bangladesh. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has evolved to give rise to a highly transmissive and immune-escaping variant of concern, known as Omicron. Many aspects of the evolution of SARS-CoV-2 and the driving forces behind the ongoing Omicron outbreaks remain unclear. Substitution at the receptor-binding domain (RBD) in the spike protein is one of the primary strategies of SARS-CoV-2 Omicron to hinder recognition by the host angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) receptor and avoid antibody-dependent defense activation. Here, we scanned for adaptive evolution within the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron genomes reported from Bangladesh in the public database GISAID (www.gisaid.org; dated 2 April 2023). The ratio of the non-synonymous (Ka) to synonymous (Ks) nucleotide substitution rate, denoted as omega, is an indicator of the selection pressure acting on protein-coding genes. A higher proportion of non-synonymous to synonymous substitutions (Ka/Ks or omega > 1) indicates positive selection, while Ka/Ks or omega near zero indicates purifying selection. An equal amount of non-synonymous and synonymous substitutions (Ka/Ks or omega = 1) refers to neutrally evolving sites. We found evidence of adaptive evolution within the spike (S) gene of SARS-CoV-2 Omicron isolated from Bangladesh. In total, 22 codon sites of the S gene displayed a signature of positive selection. The data also highlighted that the receptor-binding motif within the RBD of the spike glycoprotein is a hotspot of adaptive evolution, where many of the codons had omega > 1. Some of these adaptive sites at the RBD of the spike protein are known to be associated with increased viral fitness. The M gene and ORF6 have also experienced positive selection. These results suggest that although purifying selection is the dominant evolutionary force, positive Darwinian selection also plays a vital role in shaping the evolution of SARS-CoV-2 Omicron in Bangladesh.
37638731 | Need to know which MHCs protect against COVID? There's an App for that! In this article, we discuss the recent observation by Augusto et al. made using a novel mobile phone application-based COVID-19 Citizen Science Study that an HLA genetic variant, HLA-B*15:01, is associated with asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infection. To explain this association, Augusto et al. describe a cross-reactive memory CD8+ T-cell response in HLA-B*15:01+ SARS-CoV-2 unexposed individuals that retains high avidity for two structurally conserved epitopes found in SARS-CoV-2 and seasonal coronavirus strains. These observations provide an insight into potential molecular determinants that facilitate rapid, early clearance of virus.
37652557 | Fifty years after the discovery of the association of HLA B27 with ankylosing spondylitis. The human lymphocyte antigen B27 (HLA B27) is a member of the HLA class I family of genes in the major histocompatibility complex whose name goes back to its discovery in studies of transplanted tissue compatibility. Its prevalence in the mid-European population is about 8%. The association of HLA B27 alleles with ankylosing spondylitis (AS), a highly heritable disease, which is part of the spectrum of axial spondyloarthritis (axSpA), was discovered 50 years ago. HLA B27 explains less than 30% of the total genetic load. About 60%-90% of axSpA patients worldwide carry HLA B27. The prevalence of the disease is linked to the frequency of HLA B27 in the population which implies that there are relevant differences. Among the roughly 200 subtypes known there are two which are not disease associated. The function of HLA class I molecules is to present peptides to the immune system to defend the organism against microbes targeted by CD8+T cells. This is much supported by the role of the endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase 1 (ERAP 1) in AS, an enzyme that is responsible for the intracellular trimming of peptides, since polymorphisms of this gene are only associated with HLA-B27+ disease. The arthritogenic peptide hypothesis trying to explain the pathogenesis of AS is based on that very immune function assuming that also self peptides can be presented. HLA-B27 also plays an important role in classification, diagnosis and severitiy of axSpA.
37686141 | ERAP1 and ERAP2 Haplotypes Influence Suboptimal HLA-B*27:05-Restricted Anti-Viral CD8+ T Cell Responses Cross-Reactive to Self-Epitopes. The human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-B*27 family of alleles is strongly associated with ankylosing spondylitis (AS), a chronic inflammatory disorder affecting the axial and peripheral joints, yet some HLA-B*27 variants not associated with AS have been shown. Since no major differences in the ligandome of associated compared to not-associated alleles have emerged, a plausible hypothesis is that the quantity rather than the quality of the presented epitopes makes the difference. In addition, the Endoplasmic Reticulum AminoPeptidases (ERAPs) 1 and 2, playing a crucial role in shaping the HLA class I epitopes, act as strong AS susceptibility factors, suggesting that an altered peptidome might be responsible for the activation of pathogenic CD8+ T cells. In this context, we have previously singled out a B*27:05-restricted CD8+ T cell response against pEBNA3A (RPPIFIRRL), an EBV peptide lacking the B*27 classic binding motif. Here, we show that a specific ERAP1/2 haplotype negatively correlates with such response in B*27:05 subjects. Moreover, we prove that the B*27:05 allele successfully presents peptides with the same suboptimal N-terminal RP motif, including the self-peptide, pDYNEIN (RPPIFGDFL). Overall, this study underscores the cooperation between the HLA-B*27 and ERAP1/2 allelic variants in defining CD8+ T cell reactivity to suboptimal viral and self-B*27 peptides and prompts further investigation of the B*27:05 peptidome composition.
37737643 | Mass Spectrometric Profiling of HLA-B44 Peptidomes Provides Evidence for Tapasin-Mediated Tryptophan Editing. The extreme polymorphisms of HLA class I proteins result in structural variations in their peptide binding sites to achieve diversity in Ag presentation. External factors could independently constrict or alter HLA class I peptide repertoires. Such effects of the assembly factor tapasin were assessed for HLA-B*44:05 (Y116) and a close variant, HLA-B*44:02 (D116), which have low and high tapasin dependence, respectively, for their cell surface expression. Analyses of the HLA-B*44:05 peptidomes in the presence and absence of tapasin reveal that peptides with C-terminal tryptophans and higher predicted affinities are preferentially selected by tapasin, coincident with reduced frequencies of peptides with other C-terminal amino acids, including leucine. Comparisons of the HLA-B*44:05 and HLA-B*44:02 peptidomes indicate the expected structure-based alterations near the peptide C termini, but also C-terminal amino acid frequency and predicted affinity changes among the unique and shared peptide groups for B*44:02 and B*44:05. Overall, these findings indicate that the presence of tapasin and the tapasin dependence of assembly alter HLA class I peptide-binding preferences at the peptide C terminus. The particular C-terminal amino acid preferences that are altered by tapasin are expected to be determined by the intrinsic peptide-binding specificities of HLA class I allotypes. Additionally, the findings suggest that tapasin deficiency and reduced tapasin dependence expand the permissive affinities of HLA class I-bound peptides, consistent with prior findings that HLA class I allotypes with low tapasin dependence have increased breadth of CD8+ T cell epitope presentation and are more protective in HIV infections.
37745505 | Interferon-alpha promotes neo-antigen formation and preferential HLA-B-restricted antigen presentation in pancreatic beta-cells. Interferon (IFN)-alpha is the earliest cytokine signature observed in individuals at risk for type 1 diabetes (T1D), but its effect on the repertoire of HLA Class I (HLA-I)-bound peptides presented by pancreatic beta-cells is unknown. Using immunopeptidomics, we characterized the peptide/HLA-I presentation in in-vitro resting and IFN-alpha-exposed beta-cells. IFN-alpha increased HLA-I expression and peptide presentation, including neo-sequences derived from alternative mRNA splicing, post-translational modifications - notably glutathionylation - and protein cis -splicing. This antigenic landscape relied on processing by both the constitutive and immune proteasome. The resting beta-cell immunopeptidome was dominated by HLA-A-restricted ligands. However, IFN-alpha only marginally upregulated HLA-A and largely favored HLA-B, translating into a major increase in HLA-B-restricted peptides and into an increased activation of HLA-B-restricted vs. HLA-A-restricted CD8 + T-cells. A preferential HLA-B hyper-expression was also observed in the islets of T1D vs. non-diabetic donors, and we identified islet-infiltrating CD8 + T-cells from T1D donors reactive to HLA-B-restricted granule peptides. Thus, the inflammatory milieu of insulitis may skew the autoimmune response toward epitopes presented by HLA-B, hence recruiting a distinct T-cell repertoire that may be relevant to T1D pathogenesis.
37811811 | Molecular insights into the HLA-B35 molecules' classification associated with HIV control. Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I molecules have been shown to influence the immune response to HIV infection and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome progression. Polymorphisms within the HLA-B35 molecules divide the family into two groups, namely, Px and PY. The Px group is associated with deleterious effects and accelerated disease progression in HIV+ patients, whereas the PY group is not. The classification is based on the preferential binding of a tyrosine at the C-terminal part of the peptide in the PY group, and a nontyrosine residue in the Px group. However, there is a lack of knowledge on the molecular differences between the two groups. Here, we have investigated three HLA-B35 molecules, namely, HLA-B*35:01 (PY), HLA-B*35:03 (Px) and HLA-B*35:05 (unclassified). We selected an HIV-derived peptide, NY9, and demonstrated that it can trigger a polyfunctional CD8+ T-cell response in HLA-B*35:01+ /HIV+ patients. We determined that in the complex with the NY9 peptide, the PY molecule was more stable than the Px molecule. We solved the crystal structures of the three HLA molecules in complex with the NY9 peptide, and structural similarities with HLA-B*35:01 would classify the HLA-B*35:05 within the PY group. Interestingly, we found that HLA-B*35:05 can also bind a small molecule in its cleft, suggesting that small drugs could bind as well.
37866940 | [Identification of Peripheral Blood GZMK + CD8 + T Cells As Biomarkers of Alzheimer's Disease Based on Single-Cell Transcriptome]. Objective: Based on single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) to explore immune characteristics in the peripheral blood of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) as biomarkers. Methods: GSE168522, the scRNA-seq dataset of AD peripheral blood immune cells, was downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database and was analyzed in the RAD-Blood web server (http://www.bioinform.cn/RAD-Blood/). The changes in blood cell composition in AD patients were analyzed. The abnormal communications between different types of cells in AD patients were investigated by the CellChat R package. Results: There were two kinds of CD8 + T cells in the blood of AD patients and healthy individuals, one of which highly expressed granzyme K ( GZMK) (false discovery rate [FDR]<0.05), and the other highly expressed GZMA, GZMB, and GZMH (FDR<0.05). In the blood of AD patients, the content of GZMK + CD8 + T cells was increased by 32.9% ( P=5.15E-21), their interactions with other cell types were increased, and they might be associated with AD through the abnormal signal transduction of major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I). Erythrocyte provided the main ligands, that are, human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I molecules, including HLA- A, HLA- B, HLA- C, and HLA- E, for the abnormal MHC-I signaling pathway of GZMK + CD8 + T cells. The RESISTIN signaling pathway was specifically enriched in the blood of AD patients. Conclusion: The increased content of peripheral blood GZMK + CD8 + T cells, the increased interaction between GZMK + CD8 + T cells and erythrocytes, and the enhanced RESISTIN pathway are potential blood biomarkers of AD.
37872223 | Targeted depletion of TRBV9+ T cells as immunotherapy in a patient with ankylosing spondylitis. Autoimmunity is intrinsically driven by memory T and B cell clones inappropriately targeted at self-antigens. Selective depletion or suppression of self-reactive T cells remains a holy grail of autoimmune therapy, but disease-associated T cell receptors (TCRs) and cognate antigenic epitopes remained elusive. A TRBV9-containing CD8+ TCR motif was recently associated with the pathogenesis of ankylosing spondylitis, psoriatic arthritis and acute anterior uveitis, and cognate HLA-B*27-presented epitopes were identified. Following successful testing in nonhuman primate models, here we report human TRBV9+ T cell elimination in ankylosing spondylitis. The patient achieved remission within 3 months and ceased anti-TNF therapy after 5 years of continuous use. Complete remission has now persisted for 4 years, with three doses of anti-TRBV9 administered per year. We also observed a profound improvement in spinal mobility metrics and the Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Metrology Index (BASMI). This represents a possibly curative therapy of an autoimmune disease via selective depletion of a TRBV-defined group of T cells. The anti-TRBV9 therapy could potentially be applicable to other HLA-B*27-associated spondyloarthropathies. Such targeted elimination of the underlying cause of the disease without systemic immunosuppression could offer a new generation of safe and efficient therapies for autoimmunity.
37898872 | Class I HLA Allele Predicted Restricted Antigenic Coverages for Fap2 Protein of Fusobacterium Nucleatum Are Associated with Colorectal Cancer Incidence. OBJECTIVE: This study investigates the association between HLA-A and -B allele diversity, Fusobacterium nucleatum Fap2 protein-derived antigenic coverage, and colorectal cancer (CRC) epidemiology across diverse populations. METHODS: We examined 75 HLA-I alleles and explored 698 potential HLA-A and B-restricted Fap2-derived antigens, assessing how 21 countries may respond to these peptides based on their HLA-I distribution frequencies. Additionally, we correlated in-silico predicted Fap2 population coverage with CRC epidemiology. CRC incidence and mortality data were obtained from the Global Cancer Observatory, and HLA-A and HLA-B allele frequencies from the Allele Frequency Net Database. Binding predictions for Fap2 antigens were performed using netMHCpan4, with stringent selection criteria applied to identify relevant peptides. Population coverage was calculated using the IEDB population coverage tool, and data analysis conducted using the R programming language. RESULTS: Clustering of HLA-A and -B allele frequencies partially differentiated countries with lower CRC incidence from others. Distinct patterns of Fap2 protein coverage were observed among different populations. interestingly, we found a significant inverse correlation between CRC incidence (p = 0.0037, R = -0.6) and predicted Fap2 antigen coverage, as well as CRC mortality (p = 0.013, R = -0.53). Furthermore, we identified a specific set of Fap2-derived peptides that bind to HLA supertypes, providing a global coverage of 99.04%. CONCLUSION: Our population-based study is the first to demonstrate that higher Fap2 coverage is associated with lower CRC incidence, underscoring the potential significance of Fap2-specific CD8+ T cell responses in CRC tumorigenesis.
37950822 | HLA-B*27 and Ankylosing Spondylitis: 50 Years of Insights and Discoveries. PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To commemorate the 50th anniversary of the groundbreaking discovery of a remarkably strong association between HLA-B*27 and ankylosing spondylitis (AS). RECENT FINDINGS: In addition to HLA-B*27, more than 116 other recognized genetic risk variants have been identified, while epigenetic factors largely remain unexplored in this context. Among patients with AS who carry the HLA-B*27 gene, clonally expanded CD8 + T cells can be found in their bloodstream and within inflamed tissues. Moreover, the alpha and beta chain motifs of these T-cell receptors demonstrate a distinct affinity for certain self- and microbial-derived peptides, leading to an autoimmune response that ultimately results in the onset of the disease. These distinctive peptide-binding and presentation characteristics are a hallmark of the disease-associated HLA-B*27:05 subtype but are absent in HLA-B*27:09, a subtype not associated with the disease, differing by only a single amino acid. This discovery represents a significant advancement in unraveling the 50-year-old puzzle of how HLA-B*27 contributes to the development of AS. These findings will significantly accelerate the process of identifying peptides, both self- and microbial-derived, that instigate autoimmunity. This, in return, will pave the way for the development of more accurate and effective targeted treatments. Moreover, the discovery of improved biomarkers, in conjunction with the emerging technology of electric field molecular fingerprinting, has the potential to greatly bolster early diagnosis capabilities. A very recently published groundbreak paper underscores the remarkable effectiveness of targeting and eliminating disease-causing T cells in a HLA-B*27 patients with AS. This pivotal advancement not only signifies a paradigm shift but also bolsters the potential for preventing the disease in individuals carrying high-risk genetic variants.
38003572 | Behcet's Disease: A Comprehensive Review on the Role of HLA-B*51, Antigen Presentation, and Inflammatory Cascade. Behcet's disease (BD) is a complex, recurring inflammatory disorder with autoinflammatory and autoimmune components. This comprehensive review aims to explore BD's pathogenesis, focusing on established genetic factors. Studies reveal that HLA-B*51 is the primary genetic risk factor, but non-HLA genes (ERAP1, IL-10, IL23R/IL-12RB2), as well as innate immunity genes (FUT2, MICA, TLRs), also contribute. Genome-wide studies emphasize the significance of ERAP1 and HLA-I epistasis. These variants influence antigen presentation, enzymatic activity, and HLA-I peptidomes, potentially leading to distinct autoimmune responses. We conducted a systematic review of the literature to identify studies exploring the association between HLA-B*51 and BD and further highlighted the roles of innate and adaptive immunity in BD. Dysregulations in Th1/Th2 and Th17/Th1 ratios, heightened clonal cytotoxic (CD8+) T cells, and reduced T regulatory cells characterize BD's complex immune responses. Various immune cell types (neutrophils, gammadelta T cells, natural killer cells) further contribute by releasing cytokines (IL-17, IL-8, GM-CSF) that enhance neutrophil activation and mediate interactions between innate and adaptive immunity. In summary, this review advances our understanding of BD pathogenesis while acknowledging the research limitations. Further exploration of genetic interactions, immune dysregulation, and immune cell roles is crucial. Future studies may unveil novel diagnostic and therapeutic strategies, offering improved management for this complex disease.
38112753 | [The role of HLA-B27 in the pathogenesis and diagnosis of axial spondyloarthritis : 50 years after discovery of the strong genetic association]. BACKGROUND: The association of the human lymphocyte antigen B27 (HLA-B27) with ankylosing spondylitis (AS), also now called axial spondylarthritis (axSpA), was first described 50 years ago. OBJECTIVE: This article gives an overview of the available knowledge on the topic. MATERIAL AND METHODS: This is a narrative review based on the experience of the authors. RESULTS: The HLA-B27 is a member of the HLA class I family of genes of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC). The prevalence of HLA-B27 in the central European population is approximately 8 %, i.e., the vast majority of carriers of HLA-B27+ remain healthy. The frequency of HLA-B27 shows a decline from north to south. The HLA-B27 explains only 30 % of the genetic burden of axSpA. The prevalence of the disease correlates with the frequency of HLA-B27 in the population, i.e., there are geographic differences. Approximately 60-90 % of patients with axSpA worldwide are HLA-B27+. Some 200 subtypes of HLA-B27 can be differentiated using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). In Thailand and Sardinia two subtypes were found that are not associated with axSpA. The physiological function of HLA class I molecules is the defence of the organism against microbes. Microbial peptides are presented to the immune system, which can be specifically attacked by CD8+ T-cells. Genetic polymorphisms of the enzyme endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase 1 (ERAP1), which breaks down peptides in the endoplasmic reticulum, are associated only with HLA-B27+ diseases. DISCUSSION: The pathogenesis of axSpA is unclear but a major hypothesis is that of the arthritogenic peptides. In this it is assumed that potentially pathogenic foreign or autologous peptides can be presented by HLA-B27. If nothing else, HLA-B27 plays an important role in the diagnosis, classification and determination of the severity of axSpA.
38574928 | In silico design of high-affinity antigenic peptides for HLA-B44. Cancer cell-killing by CD8+ T cells demands effective tumor antigen presentation by human leukocyte antigen class I (HLA-I) molecules. Screening and designing highly immunogenic neoantigens require quantitative computations to reliably predict HLA-peptide binding affinities. Here, with all-atom molecular dynamics (MD) simulations and free energy perturbation (FEP) methods, we design a collection of antigenic peptide candidates through in silico mutagenesis studies on immunogenic neoantigens, yielding enhanced binding affinities to HLA-B*44:02. In-depth structural dissection shows that introducing positively charged residues such as arginine to position 6 or lysine to position 7 of the candidates triggers conformational shifts in both peptides and the antigen-binding groove of the HLA, following the \induced-fit\ mechanism. Enhancement in binding affinities compared to the wild-type was found in three out of five mutated candidates. The HLA pocket, capable of accommodating positively charged residues in positions from 5 to 7, is designated as the \dynamic pocket\. Taken together, we showcase an effective structure-based binding affinity optimization framework for antigenic peptides of HLA-B*44:02 and underscore the importance of dynamic nature of the antigen-binding groove in concert with the anchoring motifs. This work provides structural insights for rational design of favorable HLA-peptide bindings and future developments in neoantigen-based therapeutics.
19536280 | The CD8 and CD4 T-cell response against Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus is skewed towards early and late lytic antigens. Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) is causally related to Kaposi's sarcoma (KS), the most common malignancy in untreated individuals with HIV/AIDS. The adaptive T-cell immune response against KSHV has not been fully characterized. To achieve a better understanding of the antigenic repertoire of the CD8 and CD4 T-cell responses against KSHV, we constructed a library of lentiviral expression vectors each coding for one of 31 individual KSHV open reading frames (ORFs). We used these to transduce monocyte-derived dendritic cells (moDCs) isolated from 14 KSHV-seropositive (12 HIV-positive) and 7 KSHV-seronegative (4 HIV-positive) individuals. moDCs were transduced with up to 3 KSHV ORFs simultaneously (ORFs grouped according to their expression during the viral life cycle). Transduced moDCs naturally process the KSHV genes and present the resulting antigens in the context of MHC class I and II. Transduced moDCs were cultured with purified autologous T cells and the CD8 and CD4 T-cell proliferative responses to each KSHV ORF (or group) was assessed using a CFSE dye-based assay. Two pools of early lytic KSHV genes ([ORF8/ORF49/ORF61] and [ORF59/ORF65/K4.1]) were frequently-recognized targets of both CD8 and CD4 T cells from KSHV seropositive individuals. One pool of late lytic KSHV genes ([ORF28/ORF36/ORF37]) was a frequently-recognized CD8 target and another pool of late genes ([ORF33/K1/K8.1]) was a frequently-recognized CD4 target. We report that both the CD8 and CD4 T-cell responses against KSHV are skewed towards genes expressed in the early and late phases of the viral lytic cycle, and identify some previously unknown targets of these responses. This knowledge will be important to future immunological investigations into KSHV and may eventually lead to the development of better immunotherapies for KSHV-related diseases.
21093412 | Naturally arising HIV-1 Nef variants conferring escape from cytotoxic T lymphocytes influence viral entry co-receptor expression and susceptibility to superinfection. HIV-1 Nef is a key factor for pathogenesis and is known to down-regulate functionally important molecules, including viral entry co-receptor CCR5 and CXCR4, from the surface of HIV-infected cells. Some of these Nef activities are mediated by the well-conserved proline-rich region of Nef, and this region is highly targeted by cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs). In the present study, we asked whether Nef variants selected under CTL-mediated selective pressure in vivo may constrain these important Nef activities. The analysis of autologous nef sequences isolated from a cohort of total 235 subjects in Japan revealed that the subjects showing amino acid variations, such as Arg75Thr and Tyr85Phe, located within the proline-rich region were significantly over-represented by those having HLA-B*3501. CTL assays corroborated that these mutations conferred escape from HLA-B(*)3501-restricted CTLs. The Arg75Thr variant Nef selectively impaired CCR5, but not CXCR4, down-regulation activity from the cell surface; whereas the Tyr85Phe variant Nef affected neither CCR5 nor CXCR4 down-regulation activity. Moreover, the cells expressing the Arg75Thr variant Nef significantly impaired protection from superinfection by CCR5-tropic, but not CXCR4-tropic, viruses. These results highlighted the importance of certain Nef-specific CTLs in modulation of viral co-receptor down-regulation activity and protection from HIV-1 superinfection, providing us with additional insight into vaccine design.
22832272 | CD8(+) T cells from mice transnuclear for a TCR that recognizes a single H-2K(b)-restricted MHV68 epitope derived from gB-ORF8 help control infection. To study the CD8(+) T cell response against a mouse gamma-herpes virus, we generated K(b)-MHV-68-ORF8(604-612)RAG(-/-) CD8(+) T cell receptor transnuclear (TN) mice as a source of virus-specific CD8(+) T cells. K(b)-ORF8-Tet(+) CD8(+) T cells, expanded in the course of a resolving MHV-68 infection, served as a source of nucleus donors. Various in vivo and ex vivo assay criteria demonstrated the fine specificity and functionality of TN cells. TN cells proliferated extensively in response to viral infection, helped control viral burden, and exhibited a phenotype similar to that of endogenous K(b)-ORF8-Tet(+) cells. When compared to OT-1 cells, TN cells displayed distinct properties in response to lymphopenia and cognate antigen stimulation, which may be attributable to the affinity of the TCR expressed by the TN cells. The availability of MHV-68-specific CD8(+) TCR TN mice provides a new tool for investigating aspects of host-pathogen interactions unique to gamma-herpes viruses.
25407454 | [Mathematical dynamical models for personalized medicine]. One of the necessary conditions to perform any personalized medicine is to obtain good individual predictions. In addition to the numerous markers available (omics data), the methods used to analyze the data are very important too. We are presenting an example of mathematical dynamical mechanistic model that could be used for adapting the antiretroviral treatment in patients infected by the human immunodeficiency virus. The interest of this type of approach is to build a model based on biological knowledge about the interaction between markers and therefore to allow for a better predictive power. 
25477316 | Spontaneous control of HIV-1 viremia in a subject with protective HLA-B plus HLA-C alleles and HLA-C associated single nucleotide polymorphisms. INTRODUCTION: Understanding the mechanisms by which some individuals are able to naturally control HIV-1 infection is an important goal of AIDS research. We here describe the case of an HIV-1(+) woman, CASE1, who has spontaneously controlled her viremia for the last 14 of her 20 years of infection. METHODS: CASE1 has been clinically monitored since 1993. Detailed immunological, virological and histological analyses were performed on samples obtained between 2009 and 2011. RESULTS: As for other Elite Controllers, CASE1 is characterized by low to undetectable levels of plasma HIV-1 RNA, peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) associated HIV-1 DNA and reduced in vitro susceptibility of target cells to HIV-1 infection. Furthermore, a slow rate of virus evolution was demonstrated in spite the lack of assumption of any antiretroviral agent. CASE1 failed to transmit HIV-1 to either her sexual male partner or to her child born by vaginal delivery. Normal values and ratios of T and B cells were observed, along with normal histology of the intestinal mucosa. Attempts to isolate HIV-1 from her PBMC and gut-derived cells were unsuccessful, despite expression of normal cell surface levels of CD4, CCRC5 and CXCR4. CASE1 did not produce detectable anti-HIV neutralizing antibodies in her serum or genital mucosal fluid although she displayed potent T cell responses against HIV-1 Gag and Nef. CASE1 also possessed multiple genetic polymorphisms, including HLA alleles (B*14, B*57, C*06 and C*08.02) and HLA-C single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs, rs9264942 C/C and rs67384697 del/del), that have been previously individually associated with spontaneous control of plasma viremia, maintenance of high CD4(+) T cell counts and delayed disease progression. CONCLUSIONS: CASE1 has controlled her HIV-1 viremia below the limit of detection in the absence of antiretroviral therapy for more than 14 years and has not shown any sign of immunologic deterioration or disease progression. Co-expression of multiple protective HLA alleles, HLA-C SNPs and strong T cell responses against HIV-1 proteins are the most likely explanation of this very benign case of spontaneous control of HIV-1 disease progression.
25721471 | Viral and inflammatory markers in cerebrospinal fluid of patients with HIV-1-associated neurocognitive impairment during antiretroviral treatment switch. OBJECTIVES: The aim of the study was to evaluate HIV-1 viral load (VL) and inflammatory markers in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and neurocognitive performance in patients with neurocognitive impairment (NCI) while they were receiving tenofovir (TDF)/ emtricitabine (FTC)/efavirenz (EFV) and after switching to a regimen with enhanced central nervous system (CNS) penetrability. METHODS: This was a prospective, single-arm pilot study. HIV-1-infected patients with plasma viral suppression and HIV-associated NCI on a regimen including TDF/FTC/EFV were switched to abacavir (ABC)/lamivudine (3TC)/maraviroc (MVC). The Global Deficit Score (GDS) was used to score cognitive function at baseline and 48 weeks after treatment switch. Both CSF and blood samples were taken at baseline and between weeks 24 and 36 after switching. HIV-1 RNA in plasma and CSF was determined by quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Inflammatory biomarkers in CSF were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). RESULTS: A total of 71 patients receiving TDF/FTC/EFV were screened. Twelve of them (17%) had documented NCI, lacked the human leucocyte antigen (HLA)-B*57:01 haplotype and harboured Chemokine Receptor Type-5 (CCR5)-tropic virus. Eight patients had detectable HIV-1 RNA (between 2.7 and 41.6 HIV-1 RNA copies/mL) in CSF at baseline. All participants had elevated levels of neopterin and Monocyte Chemoattractant Protein 1 (MCP-1) in CSF at baseline. Eight out of 12 patients completed their follow-up assessment after treatment switch. The GDS decreased from 0.55 to 0.4 (P = 0.085). Median HIV-1 RNA in CSF decreased from 3.49 to 2.20 (P = 0.23). Among the inflammation markers in CSF, tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha decreased significantly from median 0.51 to 0.35 pg/mL (P = 0.027), showing a correlation with the changes in neopterin, interferon (IFN)-gamma and interleukin (IL)-6. CONCLUSIONS: Most patients with NCI receiving TDF/FTC/EFV had low-level viraemia and/or increased inflammatory markers in CSF. Treatment switching to an MVC-containing regimen with better CNS penetration resulted in a trend towards improvement in neurocognitive status and reduced TNF-alpha concentrations in CSF.
26100217 | [Prevalence study of the genetic markers associated with slow progression of human inmunodefiency virus type 1 in the Galician population (Northwest of Spain)]. INTRODUCTION: The deletion in the CCR5 gene (CCR5Delta32), the HLA-B*27:05, and polymorphisms rs2395029 and rs9264942 have been associated with slower progression of HIV-1. METHODS: An analysis was performed on 408 patients on follow-up. The analysis of viral load, CD4+ Tlymphocytes and other clinical variables since the diagnosis of the infection were collected. RESULTS: The prevalence of the genetic markers rs9264942, CCR5wt/Delta32, rs2395029, HLA-B*27:05 was 17.9%, 11.5%, 7.6%, and 6.4%, respectively. Of all the patients, 354 were classified as progressors and 46 as long-term non-progressors (LTNPs). Except for the HLA-B*27:05 allele, other genetic markers were associated with slower progression: CCR5wt/Delta32 (P=.011) and SNPs rs2395029 and rs9264942 (P<.0001), as well as their association (P<.0001). CONCLUSION: The prevalence of the HLA-B*57:01 allele was higher than described nationally. No association could be found between the HLA-B*27:05 allele and the presence of slower disease progression.
26169178 | In vivo analysis of Nef's role in HIV-1 replication, systemic T cell activation and CD4(+) T cell loss. BACKGROUND: Nef is a multifunctional HIV-1 protein critical for progression to AIDS. Humans infected with nef(-) HIV-1 have greatly delayed or no disease consequences. We have contrasted nef(-) and nef(+) infection of BLT humanized mice to better characterize Nef's pathogenic effects. RESULTS: Mice were inoculated with CCR5-tropic HIV-1JRCSF (JRCSF) or JRCSF with an irreversibly inactivated nef (JRCSFNefdd). In peripheral blood (PB), JRCSF exhibited high levels of viral RNA (peak viral loads of 4.71 x 10(6) +- 1.23 x 10(6) copies/ml) and a progressive, 75% loss of CD4(+) T cells over 17 weeks. Similar losses were observed in CD4(+) T cells from bone marrow, spleen, lymph node, lung and liver but thymocytes were not significantly decreased. JRCSFNefdd also had high peak viral loads (2.31 x 10(6) +- 1.67 x 10(6)) but induced no loss of PB CD4(+) T cells. In organs, JRCSFNefdd produced small, but significant, reductions in CD4(+) T cell levels and did not affect the level of thymocytes. Uninfected mice have low levels of HLA-DR(+)CD38(+)CD8(+) T cells in blood (1-2%). Six weeks post inoculation, JRCSF infection resulted in significantly elevated levels of activated CD8(+) T cells (6.37 +- 1.07%). T cell activation coincided with PB CD4(+) T cell loss which suggests a common Nef-dependent mechanism. At 12 weeks, in JRCSF infected animals PB T cell activation sharply increased to 19.7 +- 2.9% then subsided to 5.4 +- 1.4% at 14 weeks. HLA-DR(+)CD38(+)CD8(+) T cell levels in JRCSFNefdd infected mice did not rise above 1-2% despite sustained high levels of viremia. Interestingly, we also noted that in mice engrafted with human tissue expressing a putative protective HLA-B allele (B42:01), JRCSFNefdd exhibited a substantial (200-fold) reduced viral load compared to JRCSF. CONCLUSIONS: Nef expression was necessary for both systemic T cell activation and substantial CD4(+) T cell loss from blood and tissues. JRCSFNefdd infection did not activate CD8(+) T cells or reduce the level of CD4(+) T cells in blood but did result in a small Nef-independent decrease in CD4(+) T cells in organs. These observations strongly support the conclusion that viral pathogenicity is mostly driven by Nef. We also observed for the first time substantial host-specific suppression of HIV-1 replication in a small animal infection model.
26244383 | Natural killer cell education does not affect the magnitude of granzyme B delivery to target cells by antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity. OBJECTIVE: Interest in the role of antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) in protection from HIV infection has grown since analyses of the RV144 HIV vaccine trial results found ADCC correlated with protection. Natural killer (NK) cells are among the effector cells that mediate ADCC. The level of antibody-induced NK cell activation depends on NK cell education through inhibitory NK cell receptor human leukocyte antigen (HLA) ligand interactions. Here, we investigated the impact of NK cell education on the delivery of Granzyme B (GzB) to target cells. DESIGN: Lymphocytes from 50 HIV-uninfected [30 Bw4 (Bw4) and 20 Bw4 (Bw6)] KIR3DL1 homozygote persons were used as effectors and cocultured with gp120-coated target cells in the presence of a single source of anti-HIV gp120 antibody to ascertain whether NK cell education status influenced the level of GzB delivered to target cells. METHODS: The GTL assay assessed the frequency of GzB-positive (%GzB) CEM.NKr.CCR5 target cells generated by effectors from each individual. The frequency of CD107a, interferon (IFN)-gamma and CCL4 NK cells was assessed as a measure of antibody-induced NK cell activation. RESULTS: KIR3DL1 NK cells from the Bw4 group were more functional than KIR3DL1 NK cells. Despite this, the %GzB target cells generated in the GTL assay did not differ according to the KIR3DL1-HLA-B genotype of the effector cells. The %GzB cells positively correlated with the frequency of CD16KIR3DL1 NK cells in the effector population. CONCLUSION: ADCC potency does not depend on NK cell education.
26341061 | Low-cost simultaneous detection of CCR5-delta32 and HLA-B*5701 alleles in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infected patients by selective multiplex endpoint PCR. Host genetic traits impact susceptibility to human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection, disease progression as well as antiretroviral drug pharmacokinetics and toxicity. Remarkable examples include a 32-bp deletion in the CCR5 coreceptor molecule (CCR5-delta32) impairing attachment of monocytotropic HIV-1 to the host cell membrane and the HLA-B*5701 allele, strongly associated with a potentially fatal hypersensitivity reaction triggered by abacavir, a nucleoside inhibitor of HIV reverse transcriptase. We developed a simple selective multiplex endpoint PCR method for simultaneous analysis of both genetic traits. Two primers were designed for amplification of a region surrounding the CCR5 32-bp deletion site. One common forward primer and two reverse primers with different 3' termini targeting the HLA-B*570101 and HLA-B*570102 alleles were designed for HLA-B*5701 analysis. A panel of 110 reference DNA samples typed in the HLA-B locus was used for development and blind validation of the assay. All the 45 HLA-B*5701 positive and the 55 HLA-B*5701 negative samples were correctly identified. The CCR5-delta32 allele was readily detected in 7 samples and did not interfere with detection of HLA-B*5701 while providing an internal amplification control. Multiplex PCR products were easily identified in agarose gels with no background noise. This simple and low-cost end-point selective multiplex PCR can conveniently screen HIV patients for the protective CCR5-delta32 allele and the risk of developing abacavir hypersensitivity reaction. 
26995879 | [Companion Diagnostics for Selecting Antiretroviral Drugs against HIV-1]. Currently, the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus involves combination therapy, as antiretroviral therapy(ART). The treatment has improved steadily since the advent of potent combination therapy in 1996. New drugs that offer new mechanisms of action, improvements in potency and activity even against multidrug-resistant viruses, dosing convenience, and tolerability have been approved. Among ART with useful drugs, there are two important examinations before starting the treatment using the two kinds of drug. CCR5 co-receptor antagonists, maraviroc, prevent HIV entry into target cells by binding to CCR5 receptors. Genotypic assays have been developed that can determine or predict the co-receptor tropism(i.e., CCR5, CXCR4, or both) of the patient's dominant virus population. The assay for HIV-1 co-receptor usage should be performed whenever the use of a CCR5 antagonist is being considered. One of the nucleoside/nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs), abacavir, is an important agent to develop recommended regimens for antiretroviral therapy. Serious and sometimes fatal hypersensitivity reactions have been associated with abacavir-containing products, ZIAGEN, Epzicom, and Triumeq. Patients who carry the HLA-B*5701 allele are at high-risk of a hypersensitivity reaction to abacavir. Prior to initiating therapy with abacavir, performing a screening test for the HLA-B*5701 allele is recommended. [Review].
27466726 | Update on enthesitis-related arthritis. PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This review provides a detailed update regarding the genetics, pathogenesis, disease phenotype evaluation, therapies and expected outcomes for children with enthesitis-related arthritis (ERA). RECENT FINDINGS: Recent studies evaluated human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-B27 subtypes and non-major histocompatibility complex genes including toll like receptor 4, NLRP3, CXCR4 and PTPN12 in children with ERA. The microbiome and gammadelta-T cells have also been an area of active investigation. Several studies focus on the imaging phenotype of children with ERA, including the use of ultrasonography and MRI. MRI techniques studied in this population include dedicated MRI, whole-body MRI and diffusion-weighted imaging. Conventional and biologic disease-modifying agents continue to be the mainstay of therapy, though the past 2 years have witnessed several greatly needed randomized controlled trials to study the efficacy of these medications in ERA. Finally, long-term effectiveness studies of biologics in children with ERA have helped inform provider and patient expectations of disease response and prognosis. SUMMARY: Further evaluation of the role of the microbiome and the interleukin 17/interleukin 23 axis, techniques to optimize evaluation of disease features, and efficacy and effectiveness of newer medications are greatly needed in this understudied population of children.
27499379 | Antibody-Dependent Cellular Cytotoxicity Activity of Effector Cells from HIV-Infected Elite and Viral Controllers. Carriage of alleles encoding certain inhibitory natural killer (NK) cell receptor/HLA ligand KIR3DL1/HLA-B combinations is associated with protection from HIV infection and slow time to AIDS, implicating NK cells in HIV control. NK cells also mediate antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC). ADCC has been identified as a correlate of protection in secondary analyses of the modestly protective RV144 Thai HIV vaccine trial. In ADCC, HIV envelope (Env)-specific antibodies (Abs) bridge HIV-infected or gp120-coated target cells and NK cells expressing CD16 receptors for Ab Fc domains. CD16 engagement activates NK cells to secrete cytokines/chemokines, degranulate, deliver granzyme B (GrB) to target cells, and cytolysis. A subset of HIV+ subjects, known as slow progressors (SPs), maintains low-level viremia without treatment. HIV+ SPs versus progressors have higher titers and/or a greater breadth of ADCC-competent Abs. Investigations of the functional capacity of NK effector cells following CD16 engagement in HIV+ subjects are lacking. We used the ADCC-GranToxiLux (ADCC-GTL) assay to assess the frequency of GrB+ (%GrB+) cells generated by effector cells from 37 HIV+ SPs and 15 progressors to gp120-coated CEM.NKr.CCR5 target cells in the presence of anti-Env Abs. Subject groups were stratified according to whether or not they carried educating KIR3DL1/HLA-B combinations able to confer NK cells with functional potential. No differences were observed in %GrB+ target cells generated by effector cells from carriers of educating versus noneducating KIR3DL1/HLA-B pairs. The absence of an effect of NK cell education on this readout may be due to loss of the ability of educated NK cells from SPs to respond to Ab-dependent stimulation and/or the lower frequency of KIR3DL1+ than KIR3DL1- NK cells that coexpress CD16. That KIR/HLA genotypes have minimal impact on interindividual differences in ADCC potency has relevance for therapeutic interventions that target ADCC for HIV control.
32473127 | Targets of T Cell Responses to SARS-CoV-2 Coronavirus in Humans with COVID-19 Disease and Unexposed Individuals. Understanding adaptive immunity to SARS-CoV-2 is important for vaccine development, interpreting coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pathogenesis, and calibration of pandemic control measures. Using HLA class I and II predicted peptide \megapools,\ circulating SARS-CoV-2-specific CD8+ and CD4+ T cells were identified in ~70% and 100% of COVID-19 convalescent patients, respectively. CD4+ T cell responses to spike, the main target of most vaccine efforts, were robust and correlated with the magnitude of the anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgG and IgA titers. The M, spike, and N proteins each accounted for 11%-27% of the total CD4+ response, with additional responses commonly targeting nsp3, nsp4, ORF3a, and ORF8, among others. For CD8+ T cells, spike and M were recognized, with at least eight SARS-CoV-2 ORFs targeted. Importantly, we detected SARS-CoV-2-reactive CD4+ T cells in ~40%-60% of unexposed individuals, suggesting cross-reactive T cell recognition between circulating \common cold\ coronaviruses and SARS-CoV-2.
32549766 | Ligand-receptor interaction atlas within and between tumor cells and T cells in lung adenocarcinoma. Purpose: Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is the leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide. Although tumor cell-T cell interactions are known to play a fundamental role in promoting tumor progression, these interactions have not been explored in LUAD. Methods: The 10x genomics single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and gene expression data of LUAD patients were obtained from ArrayExpress, TCGA, and GEO databases. scRNA-seq data were analyzed and infiltrating tumor cells, epithelial cells, and T cells were identified in the tumor microenvironment. Differentially expressed ligand-receptor pairs were identified in tumor cells/normal epithelial cells and tumor T cells/non-tumor T cells based on corresponding scRNA-seq and gene expression data, respectively. These important interactions inside/across cancer cells and T cells in LUAD were systematically analyzed. Furthermore, a valid prognostic machine-learning model based on ligand-receptor interactions was built to predict the prognosis of LUAD patients. Flow cytometry and qRT-PCR were performed to validate the significantly differently expressed ligand-receptor pairs. Results: Overall, 39,692 cells in scRNA-seq data were included in our study after quality filtering. A total of 65 ligand-receptor pairs (17 upregulated and 48 downregulated), including LAMB1-ITGB1, CD70-CD27, and HLA-B-LILRB2, and 96 ligand-receptor pairs (41 upregulated and 55 downregulated), including CCL5-CCR5, SELPLG-ITGB2, and CXCL13-CXCR5, were identified in LUAD cancer cells and T cells, respectively. To explore the crosstalk between cancer cells and T cells, 114 ligand-receptor pairs, including 11 ligand-receptor pair genes that could significantly affect survival outcomes, were identified in our research. A machine-learning model was established to accurately predict the prognosis of LUAD patients and ITGB4, CXCR5, and MET were found to play an important role in prognosis in our model. Flow cytometry and qRT-PCR analyses indicated the reliability of our study. Conclusion: Our study revealed functionally significant interactions within and between cancer cells and T cells. We believe these observations will improve our understanding of potential mechanisms of tumor microenvironment contributions to cancer progression and help identify potential targets for immunotherapy in the future.
33173092 | Impaired ability of Nef to counteract SERINC5 is associated with reduced plasma viremia in HIV-infected individuals. HIV-1 Nef plays an essential role in enhancing virion infectivity by antagonizing the host restriction molecule SERINC5. Because Nef is highly polymorphic due to the selective forces of host cellular immunity, we hypothesized that certain immune-escape polymorphisms may impair Nef's ability to antagonize SERINC5 and thereby influence viral fitness in vivo. To test this hypothesis, we identified 58 Nef polymorphisms that were overrepresented in HIV-infected patients in Japan sharing the same HLA genotypes. The number of immune-associated Nef polymorphisms was inversely correlated with the plasma viral load. By breaking down the specific HLA allele-associated mutations, we found that a number of the HLA-B*51:01-associated Y120F and Q125H mutations were most significantly associated with a reduced plasma viral load. A series of biochemical experiments showed that the double mutations Y120F/Q125H, but not either single mutation, impaired Nef's ability to antagonize SERINC5 and was associated with decreasing virion infectivity and viral replication in primary lymphocytes. In contrast, other Nef functions such as CD4, CCR5, CXCR4 and HLA class I downregulation and CD74 upregulation remained unchanged. Taken together, our results suggest that the differential ability of Nef to counteract SERINC5 by naturally occurring immune-associated mutations was associated with the plasma viral load in vivo.
33289207 | Antigenic variation of SARS-CoV-2 in response to immune pressure. Analysis of the bat viruses most closely related to SARS-CoV-2 indicated that the virus probably required limited adaptation to spread in humans. Nonetheless, since its introduction in human populations, SARS-CoV-2 must have been subject to the selective pressure imposed by the human immune system. We exploited the availability of a large number of high-quality SARS-CoV-2 genomes, as well as of validated epitope predictions, to show that B cell epitopes in the spike glycoprotein (S) and in the nucleocapsid protein (N) have higher diversity than nonepitope positions. Similar results were obtained for other human coronaviruses and for sarbecoviruses sampled in bats. Conversely, in the SARS-CoV-2 population, epitopes for CD4+ and CD8+ T cells were not more variable than nonepitope positions. A significant reduction in epitope variability was instead observed for some of the most immunogenic proteins (S, N, ORF8 and ORF3a). Analysis over longer evolutionary time frames indicated that this effect is not due to differential constraints. These data indicate that SARS-CoV-2 evolves to elude the host humoral immune response, whereas recognition by T cells is not actively avoided by the virus. However, we also found a trend of lower diversity of T cell epitopes for common cold coronaviruses, indicating that epitope conservation per se is not directly linked to disease severity. We suggest that conservation serves to maintain epitopes that elicit tolerizing T cell responses or induce T cells with regulatory activity.
33468620 | Ipomoeassin-F inhibits the in vitro biogenesis of the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein and its host cell membrane receptor. In order to produce proteins essential for their propagation, many pathogenic human viruses, including SARS-CoV-2, the causative agent of COVID-19 respiratory disease, commandeer host biosynthetic machineries and mechanisms. Three major structural proteins, the spike, envelope and membrane proteins, are amongst several SARS-CoV-2 components synthesised at the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) of infected human cells prior to the assembly of new viral particles. Hence, the inhibition of membrane protein synthesis at the ER is an attractive strategy for reducing the pathogenicity of SARS-CoV-2 and other obligate viral pathogens. Using an in vitro system, we demonstrate that the small molecule inhibitor ipomoeassin F (Ipom-F) potently blocks the Sec61-mediated ER membrane translocation and/or insertion of three therapeutic protein targets for SARS-CoV-2 infection; the viral spike and ORF8 proteins together with angiotensin-converting enzyme 2, the host cell plasma membrane receptor. Our findings highlight the potential for using ER protein translocation inhibitors such as Ipom-F as host-targeting, broad-spectrum antiviral agents.This article has an associated First Person interview with the first author of the paper.
33589648 | Analysis of SARS-CoV-2 mutations in the United States suggests presence of four substrains and novel variants. SARS-CoV-2 has been mutating since it was first sequenced in early January 2020. Here, we analyze 45,494 complete SARS-CoV-2 geneome sequences in the world to understand their mutations. Among them, 12,754 sequences are from the United States. Our analysis suggests the presence of four substrains and eleven top mutations in the United States. These eleven top mutations belong to 3 disconnected groups. The first and second groups consisting of 5 and 8 concurrent mutations are prevailing, while the other group with three concurrent mutations gradually fades out. Moreover, we reveal that female immune systems are more active than those of males in responding to SARS-CoV-2 infections. One of the top mutations, 27964C > T-(S24L) on ORF8, has an unusually strong gender dependence. Based on the analysis of all mutations on the spike protein, we uncover that two of four SASR-CoV-2 substrains in the United States become potentially more infectious.
33622851 | Comparative Genomics and Integrated Network Approach Unveiled Undirected Phylogeny Patterns, Co-mutational Hot Spots, Functional Cross Talk, and Regulatory Interactions in SARS-CoV-2. The severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) pandemic has resulted in 92 million cases in a span of 1 year. The study focuses on understanding population-specific variations attributing its high rate of infections in specific geographical regions particularly in the United States. Rigorous phylogenomic network analysis of complete SARS-CoV-2 genomes (245) inferred five central clades named a (ancestral), b, c, d, and e (subtypes e1 and e2). Clade d and subclade e2 were found exclusively comprised of U.S. strains. Clades were distinguished by 10 co-mutational combinations in Nsp3, ORF8, Nsp13, S, Nsp12, Nsp2, and Nsp6. Our analysis revealed that only 67.46% of single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) mutations were at the amino acid level. T1103P mutation in Nsp3 was predicted to increase protein stability in 238 strains except for 6 strains which were marked as ancestral type, whereas co-mutation (P409L and Y446C) in Nsp13 were found in 64 genomes from the United States highlighting its 100% co-occurrence. Docking highlighted mutation (D614G) caused reduction in binding of spike proteins with angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), but it also showed better interaction with the TMPRSS2 receptor contributing to high transmissibility among U.S. strains. We also found host proteins, MYO5A, MYO5B, and MYO5C, that had maximum interaction with viral proteins (nucleocapsid [N], spike [S], and membrane [M] proteins). Thus, blocking the internalization pathway by inhibiting MYO5 proteins which could be an effective target for coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) treatment. The functional annotations of the host-pathogen interaction (HPI) network were found to be closely associated with hypoxia and thrombotic conditions, confirming the vulnerability and severity of infection. We also screened CpG islands in Nsp1 and N conferring the ability of SARS-CoV-2 to enter and trigger zinc antiviral protein (ZAP) activity inside the host cell.IMPORTANCE In the current study, we presented a global view of mutational pattern observed in SARS-CoV-2 virus transmission. This provided a who-infect-whom geographical model since the early pandemic. This is hitherto the most comprehensive comparative genomics analysis of full-length genomes for co-mutations at different geographical regions especially in U.S. strains. Compositional structural biology results suggested that mutations have a balance of opposing forces affecting pathogenicity suggesting that only a few mutations are effective at the translation level. Novel HPI analysis and CpG predictions elucidate the proof of concept of hypoxia and thrombotic conditions in several patients. Thus, the current study focuses the understanding of population-specific variations attributing a high rate of SARS-CoV-2 infections in specific geographical regions which may eventually be vital for the most severely affected countries and regions for sharp development of custom-made vindication strategies.
34138976 | Manipulation of the unfolded protein response: A pharmacological strategy against coronavirus infection. Coronavirus infection induces the unfolded protein response (UPR), a cellular signalling pathway composed of three branches, triggered by unfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) due to high ER load. We have used RNA sequencing and ribosome profiling to investigate holistically the transcriptional and translational response to cellular infection by murine hepatitis virus (MHV), often used as a model for the Betacoronavirus genus to which the recently emerged SARS-CoV-2 also belongs. We found the UPR to be amongst the most significantly up-regulated pathways in response to MHV infection. To confirm and extend these observations, we show experimentally the induction of all three branches of the UPR in both MHV- and SARS-CoV-2-infected cells. Over-expression of the SARS-CoV-2 ORF8 or S proteins alone is itself sufficient to induce the UPR. Remarkably, pharmacological inhibition of the UPR greatly reduced the replication of both MHV and SARS-CoV-2, revealing the importance of this pathway for successful coronavirus replication. This was particularly striking when both IRE1alpha and ATF6 branches of the UPR were inhibited, reducing SARS-CoV-2 virion release (~1,000-fold). Together, these data highlight the UPR as a promising antiviral target to combat coronavirus infection.
34396391 | T-CoV: a comprehensive portal of HLA-peptide interactions affected by SARS-CoV-2 mutations. Rapidly appearing SARS-CoV-2 mutations can affect T cell epitopes, which can help the virus to evade either CD8 or CD4 T-cell responses. We developed T-cell COVID-19 Atlas (T-CoV, https://t-cov.hse.ru) - the comprehensive web portal, which allows one to analyze how SARS-CoV-2 mutations alter the presentation of viral peptides by HLA molecules. The data are presented for common virus variants and the most frequent HLA class I and class II alleles. Binding affinities of HLA molecules and viral peptides were assessed with accurate in silico methods. The obtained results highlight the importance of taking HLA alleles diversity into account: mutation-mediated alterations in HLA-peptide interactions were highly dependent on HLA alleles. For example, we found that the essential number of peptides tightly bound to HLA-B*07:02 in the reference Wuhan variant ceased to be tight binders for the Indian (Delta) and the UK (Alpha) variants. In summary, we believe that T-CoV will help researchers and clinicians to predict the susceptibility of individuals with different HLA genotypes to infection with variants of SARS-CoV-2 and/or forecast its severity.
34716845 | Robust Virus-Specific Adaptive Immunity in COVID-19 Patients with SARS-CoV-2 Delta382 Variant Infection. The severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) variants of concern (VOCs) that have become dominant as the pandemic progresses bear the ORF8 mutation together with multiple spike mutations. A 382-nucleotide deletion (Delta382) in the ORF7b and ORF8 regions has been associated with milder disease phenotype and less systemic inflammation in COVID-19 patients. However, its impact on host immunity against SARS-CoV-2 remains undefined. Here, RNA-sequencing was performed to elucidate whole blood transcriptomic profiles and identify contrasting immune signatures between patients infected with either wildtype or Delta382 SARS-CoV-2 variant. Interestingly, the immune landscape of Delta382 SARS-CoV-2 infected patients featured an increased adaptive immune response, evidenced by enrichment of genes related to T cell functionality, a more robust SARS-CoV-2-specific T cell immunity, as well as a more rapid antibody response. At the molecular level, eukaryotic initiation factor 2 signaling was found to be upregulated in patients bearing Delta382, and its associated genes were correlated with systemic levels of T cell-associated and pro-inflammatory cytokines. This study provides more in-depth insight into the host-pathogen interactions of ORF8 with great promise as a therapeutic target to combat SARS-CoV-2 infection.
34896288 | Clinical parameters, selected HLA and chemokine gene variants associated with late presentation into care of people living with HIV/AIDS. INTRODUCTION: Late presentation into care remains a significant problem in the diagnosis of HIV infection, and may negatively impact the Joint United Nations Program HIV/AIDS elimination targets. Host genetics affects the tempo of HIV disease progression and therefore may influence clinical status at care entry. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Longitudinal data were collected for 863 Caucasian patients followed up at Pomeranian Medical University, Szczecin, Poland. Single nucleotide polymorphisms in CCR2 (rs1799864), CX3CR1 (rs3732378), HLAC-35 (rs9264942), CCR5 promoter (rs1799988) as well as 32 base pair CCR5 mutation and HLA-B*5701 genotypes were correlated with the clinical and immunologic patient status at care entry. Late presentation was defined as baseline CD4 lymphocyte count <350 cells/muL or history of AIDS-defining illness, while advanced HIV disease as baseline CD4 lymphocyte count <200 cells/muL or AIDS. RESULTS: Of the analyzed gene variants, the CCR2 (rs1799864) GG genotype was more frequent among patients presenting for care with a CD4 lymphocyte count <200/muL (82.6% for GG homozygotes vs. 74.5% for allele A carriers, p = 0.01). The presence of the heterozygous wt/Delta32 genotype at the CCR5 gene was associated with a higher frequency of asymptomatic infection (18.9% for wt/Delta32 heterozygotes vs. 12% for wt/wt homozygotes, p = 0.03). As expected, this association was also observed among late presenters compared to patients presenting for care earlier (13.7% vs. 19,7%, respectively, p = 0.04). Finally, HLA-B*5701 was less common among late presenters (5%) compared to patients who entered care early (9.6%, p = 0.01) or patients with advanced HIV disease (8.9% vs. 5.2%, p = 0.02). CONCLUSIONS: Late presentation was associated with the GG homozygous genotype at the CCR2 rs1799864 SNP, while both the HLA-B*5701 variant and the CCR5 wt/Delta32 were associated with more favorable clinical profile at care entry.
34924802 | Emergence, evolution, and vaccine production approaches of SARS-CoV-2 virus: Benefits of getting vaccinated and common questions. The emergence of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic in Wuhan city, China at the end of 2019 made it urgent to identify the origin of the causal pathogen and its molecular evolution, to appropriately design an effective vaccine. This study analyzes the evolutionary background of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2 or SARS-2) in accordance with its close relative SARS-CoV (SARS-1), which was emerged in 2002. A comparative genomic and proteomic study was conducted on SARS-2, SARS-1, and Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS), which was emerged in 2012. In silico analysis inferred the genetic variability among the tested viruses. The SARS-1 genome harbored 11 genes encoding 12 proteins, while SARS-2 genome contained only 10 genes encoding for 10 proteins. MERS genome contained 11 genes encoding 11 proteins. The analysis also revealed a slight variation in the whole genome size of SARS-2 comparing to its siblings resulting from sequential insertions and deletions (indels) throughout the viral genome particularly ORF1AB, spike, ORF10 and ORF8. The effective indels were observed in the gene encoding the spike protein that is responsible for viral attachment to the angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) cell receptor and initiating infection. These indels are responsible for the newly emerging COVID-19 variants alphaCoV, betaCoV, gammaCoV and deltaCoV. Nowadays, few effective COVID-19 vaccines developed based on spike (S) glycoprotein were approved and become available worldwide. Currently available vaccines can relatively prevent the spread of COVID-19 and suppress the disease. The traditional (killed or attenuated virus vaccine and antibody-based vaccine) and innovated vaccine production technologies (RNA- and DNA-based vaccines and viral vectors) are summarized in this review. We finally highlight the most common questions related to COVID-19 disease and the benefits of getting vaccinated.
35407496 | Factors Influencing Immune Restoration in People Living with HIV/AIDS. Introduction: Immune restoration is a key clinical aspect that is pursued in the care of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected patients. Despite effective antiretroviral treatment and undetectable viremia, immune recovery is often incomplete. Materials and methods: Data from 311 Caucasian patients were collected. SNP in CCR2(rs1799864), CX3CR1(rs3732378), HLAC-35(rs9264942), and CCR5(promoter, rs1799988); a 32bp deletion(Delta32) in CCR5; and HLA-B*5701 genotypes were correlated with clinical data and selected endpoints. Kaplan-Meier and Cox proportional hazards models were used to analyze the effects of genetic factors over time. Results: For HLA-B*5701, the effect on the CD4+/CD8+ >0.8 cell ratio was lost within 48 months (HR = 2.04, 95% CI: 1.04-4.03), and the effect on the CD4+ cell count >500 cells/microL was lost within 12 months (HR = 2.12, CI: 1.11-4.04). The effect of CCR2 GG on the CD4+/CD8+ >0.8 cell ratio was lost within 36 months (HR = 1.7, CI: 1.05-2.75). For CCR5 wt/Delta32, the effect on the CD4+/CD8+ >1.0 cell ratio was lost within 24 months (HR = 2.0, CI: 1.08-3.69), and the effect on the CD4+ >800 cells/microL cell count was lost within 18 months (HR = 1.98, CI: 1.14-4.73). Conclusions: Selected genetic polymorphisms, namely CCR2 GG and CCR5 Delta32, and the presence of the HLA-B*5701 allele positively influenced immune restoration in cART-treated patients with HIV/AIDS.
35746708 | SARS-CoV-2 Accessory Protein ORF8 Decreases Antibody-Dependent Cellular Cytotoxicity. Viruses use many different strategies to evade host immune responses. In the case of SARS-CoV-2, its Spike mutates rapidly to escape from neutralizing antibodies. In addition to this strategy, ORF8, a small accessory protein encoded by SARS-CoV-2, helps immune evasion by reducing the susceptibility of SARS-CoV-2-infected cells to the cytotoxic CD8+ T cell response. Interestingly, among all accessory proteins, ORF8 is rapidly evolving and a deletion in this protein has been linked to milder disease. Here, we studied the effect of ORF8 on peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC). Specifically, we found that ORF8 can bind monocytes as well as NK cells. Strikingly, ORF8 binds CD16a (FcgammaRIIIA) with nanomolar affinity and decreases the overall level of CD16 at the surface of monocytes and, to a lesser extent, NK cells. This decrease significantly reduces the capacity of PBMCs and particularly monocytes to mediate antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC). Overall, our data identifies a new immune-evasion activity used by SARS-CoV-2 to escape humoral responses.
35788229 | In silico study on the effects of disulfide bonds in ORF8 of SARS-CoV-2. The COVID-19 epidemic, caused by virus SARS-CoV-2, has turned into a pandemic and threatened everyone's health for the past two years. In SARS-CoV-2, ORF8 is one of the most important accessory proteins with a role in immune modulation. There are multiple disulfide bonds in the wild type (WT) ORF8. Here, we present an in silico study on the effects of the disulfide bonds in ORF8 on the aspects of the structural properties and binding properties with the human leukocyte antigen (HLA-A). We first define five possible states for ORF8 with different disulfide bond reduction schemes. For each state, we collect the conformational ensemble using molecular dynamics (MD) simulations in an explicit solvent. From the analysis of the structural properties, we find that the reduction of the disulfide bonds has small effects on the global properties but much larger effects on the ORF8-specific region that is located on the surface of the ORF8 dimer. Interestingly, we find that the dimer does not break into two monomers at room temperature even if all the disulfide bonds get reduced. Further, we investigate the role of the disulfide bonds in the interactions with the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) by performing docking between HLA-A and the conformational ensembles of ORF8 in different states. We give predictions on the preferred binding sites for each state and validate the predictions for the WT dimer with the experimental data on epitopes. In the end, we evaluate the stability of the complexes formed between HLA-A and ORF8 in each state using MD simulations. Our observations can provide inspiration for inhibitor/drug design against ORF8 based on the binding pathway with HLA-A.
36090591 | Genomic variants-driven drug repurposing for tuberculosis by utilizing the established bioinformatic-based approach. A major challenge in translating genomic variants of Tuberculosis (TB) into clinical implementation is to integrate the disease-associated variants and facilitate drug discovery through the concept of genomic-driven drug repurposing. Here, we utilized two established genomic databases, namely a Genome-Wide Association Study (GWAS) and a Phenome-Wide Association Study (PheWAS) to identify the genomic variants associated with TB disease and further utilize them for drug-targeted genes. We evaluated 3.425 genomic variants associated with TB disease which overlapped with 200 TB-associated genes. To prioritize the biological TB risk genes, we devised an in-silico pipeline and leveraged an established bioinformatics method based on six functional annotations (missense mutation, cis-eQTL, biological process, cellular component, molecular function, and KEGG molecular pathway analysis). Interestingly, based on the six functional annotations that we applied, we discovered that 14 biological TB risk genes are strongly linked to the deregulation of the biological TB risk genes. Hence, we demonstrated that 12 drug target genes overlapped with 40 drugs for other indications and further suggested that the drugs may be repurposed for the treatment of TB. We highlighted that CD44, CCR5, CXCR4, and C3 are highly promising proposed TB targets since they are connected to SELP and HLA-B, which are biological TB risk genes with high systemic scores on functional annotations. In sum, the current study shed light on the genomic variants involved in TB pathogenesis as the biological TB risk genes and provided empirical evidence that the genomics of TB may contribute to drug discovery.
36202985 | A novel vaccine based on SARS-CoV-2 CD4+ and CD8+ T cell conserved epitopes from variants Alpha to Omicron. COVID-19 caused, as of September, 1rst, 2022, 599,825,400 confirmed cases, including 6,469,458 deaths. Currently used vaccines reduced severity and mortality but not virus transmission or reinfection by different strains. They are based on the Spike protein of the Wuhan reference virus, which although highly antigenic suffered many mutations in SARS-CoV-2 variants, escaping vaccine-generated immune responses. Multiepitope vaccines based on 100% conserved epitopes of multiple proteins of all SARS-CoV-2 variants, rather than a single highly mutating antigen, could offer more long-lasting protection. In this study, a multiepitope multivariant vaccine was designed using immunoinformatics and in silico approaches. It is composed of highly promiscuous and strong HLA binding CD4+ and CD8+ T cell epitopes of the S, M, N, E, ORF1ab, ORF 6 and ORF8 proteins. Based on the analysis of one genome per WHO clade, the epitopes were 100% conserved among the Wuhan-Hu1, Alpha, Beta, Gamma, Delta, Omicron, Mmicro, Zeta, Lambda and R1 variants. An extended epitope-conservancy analysis performed using GISAID metadata of 3,630,666 SARS-CoV-2 genomes of these variants and the additional genomes of the Epsilon, Lota, Theta, Eta, Kappa and GH490 R clades, confirmed the high conservancy of the epitopes. All but one of the CD4 peptides showed a level of conservation greater than 97% among all genomes. All but one of the CD8 epitopes showed a level of conservation greater than 96% among all genomes, with the vast majority greater than 99%. A multiepitope and multivariant recombinant vaccine was designed and it was stable, mildly hydrophobic and non-toxic. The vaccine has good molecular docking with TLR4 and promoted, without adjuvant, strong B and Th1 memory immune responses and secretion of high levels of IL-2, IFN-gamma, lower levels of IL-12, TGF-beta and IL-10, and no IL-6. Experimental in vivo studies should validate the vaccine's further use as preventive tool with cross-protective properties.
36849422 | HLA-Bw4 in association with KIR3DL1 favors natural killer cell-mediated protection against severe COVID-19. Replicating SARS-CoV-2 has been shown to degrade HLA class I on target cells to evade the cytotoxic T-cell (CTL) response. HLA-I downregulation can be sensed by NK cells to unleash killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptor (KIR)-mediated self-inhibition by the cognate HLA-I ligands. Here, we investigated the impact of HLA and KIR genotypes and HLA-KIR combinations on COVID-19 outcome. We found that the peptide affinities of HLA alleles were not correlated with COVID-19 severity. The predicted poor binders for SARS-CoV-2 peptides belong to HLA-B subtypes that encode KIR ligands, including Bw4 and C1 (introduced by B*46:01), which have a small F pocket and cannot accommodate SARS-CoV-2 CTL epitopes. However, HLA-Bw4 weak binders were beneficial for COVID-19 outcome, and individuals lacking the HLA-Bw4 motif were at higher risk for serious illness from COVID-19. The presence of the HLA-Bw4 and KIR3DL1 combination had a 58.8% lower risk of developing severe COVID-19 (OR = 0.412, 95% CI = 0.187-0.904, p = 0.02). This suggests that HLA-Bw4 alleles that impair their ability to load SARS-CoV-2 peptides will become targets for NK-mediated destruction. Thus, we proposed that the synergistic responsiveness of CTLs and NK cells can efficiently control SARS-CoV-2 infection and replication, and NK-cell-mediated anti-SARS-CoV-2 immune responses being mostly involved in severe infection when the level of ORF8 is high enough to degrade HLA-I. The HLA-Bw4/KIR3DL1 genotype may be particularly important for East Asians undergoing COVID-19 who are enriched in HLA-Bw4-inhibitory KIR interactions and carry a high frequency of HLA-Bw4 alleles that bind poorly to coronavirus peptides.
37602463 | ORF6, a repressor of the MHC class I pathway: New molecular target for SARS-CoV-2 drug discovery? 
37875475 | An interferon-integrated mucosal vaccine provides pan-sarbecovirus protection in small animal models. A pan-sarbecovirus or pan-betacoronavirus vaccine that can prevent current and potential future beta-coronavirus infections is important for fighting possible future pandemics. Here, we report a mucosal vaccine that cross-protects small animal models from sarbecoviruses including SARS-CoV-1, SARS-CoV-2 and its variants. The vaccine comprises a live-but-defective SARS-CoV-2 virus that is envelope deficient and has the orf8 segment replaced by interferon-beta, hence named Interferon Beta Integrated SARS-CoV-2 (IBIS) vaccine. Nasal vaccination with IBIS protected mice from lethal homotypic SARS-CoV-2 infection and hamsters from co-housing-mediated transmission of homotypic virus. Moreover, IBIS provided complete protection against heterotypic sarbecoviruses, including SARS-CoV-2 Delta and Omicron variants, and SARS-CoV-1 in both mice and hamsters. Besides inducing a strong lung CD8 + T cell response, IBIS specifically heightened the activation of mucosal virus-specific CD4 + T cells compared to the interferon-null vaccine. The direct production of interferon by IBIS also suppressed virus co-infection of SARS-CoV-2 in human cells, reducing the risk of genetic recombination when using as live vaccines. Altogether, IBIS is a next-generation pan-sarbecovirus vaccine and warrants further clinical investigations.
37962099 | Impact of predicted HLA class I immunopeptidome on viral reservoir in a cohort of people living with HIV in Italy. The class I HLA genotype has been widely recognized as a factor influencing HIV disease progression in treatment-naive subjects. However, little is known regarding its role in HIV disease course and how it influences the size of the viral reservoir once anti-retroviral therapy (ART) is started. Here, leveraging on cutting-edge bioinformatic tools, we explored the relationship between HLA class I and the HIV reservoir in a cohort of 90 people living with HIV (PLWH) undergoing ART and who achieved viral suppression. Analysis of HLA allele distribution among patients with high and low HIV reservoir allowed us to document a predominant role of HLA-B and -C genes in regulating the size of HIV reservoir. We then focused on the analysis of HIV antigen (Ag) repertoire, by investigating immunogenetic parameters such as the degree of homozygosity, HLA evolutionary distance and Ag load. In particular, we used two different bioinformatic algorithms, NetMHCpan and MixMHCpred, to predict HLA presentation of immunogenic HIV-derived peptides and identified HLA-B*57:01 and HLA-B*58:01 among the highest ranking HLAs in terms of total load, suggesting that their previously reported protective role against HIV disease progression might be linked to a more effective viral recognition and presentation to Cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs). Further, we speculated that some peptide-HLA complexes, including those produced by the interaction between HLA-B*27 and the HIV Gag protein, might be particularly relevant for the efficient regulation of HIV replication and containment of the HIV reservoir. Last, we provide evidence of a possible synergistic effect between the CCR5  32 mutation and Ag load in controlling HIV reservoir.
38026171 | Genomic and transcriptomic characterization of delta SARS-CoV-2 infection in free-ranging white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus). White-tailed deer (WTD) are susceptible to SARS-CoV-2 and represent an important species for surveillance. Samples from WTD (n = 258) collected in November 2021 from Quebec, Canada were analyzed for SARS-CoV-2 RNA. We employed viral genomics and host transcriptomics to further characterize infection and investigate host response. We detected Delta SARS-CoV-2 (B.1.617.2) in WTD from the Estrie region; sequences clustered with human sequences from October 2021 from Vermont, USA, which borders this region. Mutations in the S-gene and a deletion in ORF8 were detected. Host expression patterns in SARS-CoV-2 infected WTD were associated with the innate immune response, including signaling pathways related to anti-viral, pro- and anti-inflammatory signaling, and host damage. We found limited correlation between genes associated with innate immune response from human and WTD nasal samples, suggesting differences in responses to SARS-CoV-2 infection. Our findings provide preliminary insights into host response to SARS-CoV-2 infection in naturally infected WTD.
38043095 | Defining Distinct RNA-Protein Interactomes of SARS-CoV-2 Genomic and Subgenomic RNAs. Host RNA binding proteins recognize viral RNA and play key roles in virus replication and antiviral mechanisms. SARS-CoV-2 generates a series of tiered subgenomic RNAs (sgRNAs), each encoding distinct viral protein(s) that regulate different aspects of viral replication. Here, for the first time, we demonstrate the successful isolation of SARS-CoV-2 genomic RNA and three distinct sgRNAs (N, S, and ORF8) from a single population of infected cells and characterize their protein interactomes. Over 500 protein interactors (including 260 previously unknown) were identified as associated with one or more target RNA. These included protein interactors unique to a single RNA pool and others present in multiple pools, highlighting our ability to discriminate between distinct viral RNA interactomes despite high sequence similarity. Individual interactomes indicated viral associations with cell response pathways, including regulation of cytoplasmic ribonucleoprotein granules and posttranscriptional gene silencing. We tested the significance of three protein interactors in these pathways (APOBEC3F, PPP1CC, and MSI2) using siRNA knockdowns, with several knockdowns affecting viral gene expression, most consistently PPP1CC. This study describes a new technology for high-resolution studies of SARS-CoV-2 RNA regulation and reveals a wealth of new viral RNA-associated host factors of potential functional significance to infection.
38056114 | Serological assays for differentiating natural COVID-19 infection from vaccine induced immunity. BACKGROUND: Natural SARS-CoV-2 infection may elicit antibodies to a range of viral proteins including non-structural protein ORF8. RNA, adenovirus vectored and sub-unit vaccines expressing SARS-CoV-2 spike would be only expected to elicit S-antibodies and antibodies to distinct domains of nucleocapsid (N) protein may reliably differentiate infection from vaccine-elicited antibody. However, inactivated whole virus vaccines may potentially elicit antibody to wider range of viral proteins, including N protein. We hypothesized that antibody to ORF8 protein will discriminate natural infection from vaccination irrespective of vaccine type. METHODS: We optimized and validated the anti-ORF8 and anti-N C-terminal domain (NCTD) ELISA assays using sera from pre-pandemic, RT-PCR confirmed natural infection sera and BNT162b2 (BNT) or CoronaVac vaccinees. We then applied these optimized assays to a cohort of blood donor sera collected in April-July 2022 with known vaccination and self-reported infection status. RESULTS: We optimized cut-off values for the anti-ORF8 and anti-N-CTD IgG ELISA assays using receiver-operating-characteristic (ROC) curves. The sensitivity of the anti-ORF8 and anti-N-CTD ELISA for detecting past infection was 83.2% and 99.3%, respectively. Specificity of anti-ORF8 ELISA was 96.8 % vs. the pre-pandemic cohort or 93% considering the pre-pandemic and vaccine cohorts together. The anti-N-CTD ELISA specificity of 98.9% in the pre-pandemic cohort, 93% in BNT vaccinated and only 4 % in CoronaVac vaccinated cohorts. Anti-N-CTD antibody was longer-lived than anti-ORF8 antibody after natural infection. CONCLUSIONS: Anti-N-CTD antibody assays provide good discrimination between natural infection and vaccination in BNT162b2 vaccinated individuals. Anti-ORF8 antibody can help discriminate infection from vaccination in either type of vaccine and help estimate infection attack rates (IAR) in communities.
38087193 | An ncRNA transcriptomics-based approach to design siRNA molecules against SARS-CoV-2 double membrane vesicle formation and accessory genes. BACKGROUND: The corona virus SARS-CoV-2 is the causative agent of recent most global pandemic. Its genome encodes various proteins categorized as non-structural, accessory, and structural proteins. The non-structural proteins, NSP1-16, are located within the ORF1ab. The NSP3, 4, and 6 together are involved in formation of double membrane vesicle (DMV) in host Golgi apparatus. These vesicles provide anchorage to viral replicative complexes, thus assist replication inside the host cell. While the accessory genes coded by ORFs 3a, 3b, 6, 7a, 7b, 8a, 8b, 9b, 9c, and 10 contribute in cell entry, immunoevasion, and pathological progression. METHODS: This in silico study is focused on designing sequence specific siRNA molecules as a tool for silencing the non-structural and accessory genes of the virus. The gene sequences of NSP3, 4, and 6 along with ORF3a, 6, 7a, 8, and 10 were retrieved for conservation, phylogenetic, and sequence logo analyses. siRNA candidates were predicted using siDirect 2.0 targeting these genes. The GC content, melting temperatures, and various validation scores were calculated. Secondary structures of the guide strands and siRNA-target duplexes were predicted. Finally, tertiary structures were predicted and subjected to structural validations. RESULTS: This study revealed that NSP3, 4, and 6 and accessory genes ORF3a, 6, 7a, 8, and 10 have high levels of conservation across globally circulating SARS-CoV-2 strains. A total of 71 siRNA molecules were predicted against the selected genes. Following rigorous screening including binary validations and minimum free energies, final siRNAs with high therapeutic potential were identified, including 7, 2, and 1 against NSP3, NSP4, and NSP6, as well as 3, 1, 2, and 1 targeting ORF3a, ORF7a, ORF8, and ORF10, respectively. CONCLUSION: Our novel in silico pipeline integrates effective methods from previous studies to predict and validate siRNA molecules, having the potential to inhibit viral replication pathway in vitro. In total, this study identified 17 highly specific siRNA molecules targeting NSP3, 4, and 6 and accessory genes ORF3a, 7a, 8, and 10 of SARS-CoV-2, which might be used as an additional antiviral treatment option especially in the cases of life-threatening urgencies.
38094081 | Oligomer formation of SARS-CoV-2 ORF8 through 73YIDI76 motifs regulates immune response and non-infusion antiviral interactions. Introduction: Open Reading Frame 8 (ORF8) is a 121 amino acid length SARS-CoV-2 specific accessory protein that plays crucial roles in viral infectivity, and pathogenesis. Current SARS-CoV-2 treatments focus on spike or RNA-dependent RNA polymerase proteins. Hence, directing attention to ORF8 yields substantial benefits for innovative non-infusional therapeutics. Functional ORF8 is proposed to form oligomers via a crystallographic contact centered by 73YIDI76 motifs. Methods: Hence, the structure and atomistic interactions of trimeric and tetrameric ORF8 oligomeric forms were modeled by means of thorough molecular modeling and molecular dynamics simulations. Results: Results show that trimeric and tetrameric oligomers are stabilized by the interaction of beta4-beta5 (47-83) loops. 73YIDI76 motifs are involved in obtaining the oligomerization interfaces. It is shown that the tetramers which resemble a doughnut-like construction are the most stabilized oligomeric forms. Where four beta4-beta5 loops form the interfaces between two dimers. Each monomer links to two others through beta4-beta5 loops and a covalent Cys20-Cys20 bridge. Epitope mapping, binding site predictions, and solvent-accessible surface area analyses of different ORF8 forms show that the B-cell, MHC-I, and drug epitopes stay exposed in oligomeric forms. Discussion: Approving that the viral infectivity is expanded upon ORF8 oligomerization and the regions involved in oligomerization can be considered as therapeutic targets.
38167176 | Inferring Incidence of Unreported SARS-CoV-2 Infections Using Seroprevalence of Open Reading Frame 8 Antigen, Hong Kong. We tested seroprevalence of open reading frame 8 antigens to infer the number of unrecognized SARS-CoV-2 Omicron infections in Hong Kong during 2022. We estimate 33.6% of the population was infected, 72.1% asymptomatically. Surveillance and control activities during large-scale outbreaks should account for potentially substantial undercounts.
38197644 | Analysis of SARS-CoV-2 genome evolutionary patterns. The spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus accompanied by public availability of abundant sequence data provides a window for the determination of viral evolutionary patterns. In this study, SARS-CoV-2 genome sequences were collected from seven countries in the period January 2020-December 2022. The sequences were classified into three phases, namely, pre-vaccination, post-vaccination, and recent period. Comparison was performed between these phases based on parameters like mutation rates, selection pressure (dN/dS ratio), and transition to transversion ratios (Ti/Tv). Similar comparisons were performed among SARS-CoV-2 variants. Statistical significance was tested using Graphpad unpaired t-test. The analysis showed an increase in the percent genomic mutation rates post-vaccination and in recent periods across all countries from the pre-vaccination sequences. Mutation rates were highest in NSP3, S, N, and NSP12b before and increased further after vaccination. NSP4 showed the largest change in mutation rates after vaccination. The dN/dS ratios showed purifying selection that shifted toward neutral selection after vaccination. N, ORF8, ORF3a, and ORF10 were under highest positive selection before vaccination. Shift toward neutral selection was driven by E, NSP3, and ORF7a in the after vaccination set. In recent sequences, the largest dN/dS change was observed in E, NSP1, and NSP13. The Ti/Tv ratios decreased with time. C U and G U were the most frequent transitions and transversions. However, U G was the most frequent transversion in recent period. The Omicron variant had the highest genomic mutation rates, while Delta showed the highest dN/dS ratio. Protein-wise dN/dS ratio was also seen to vary across the different variants.IMPORTANCETo the best of our knowledge, there exists no other large-scale study of the genomic and protein-wise mutation patterns during the time course of evolution in different countries. Analyzing the SARS-CoV-2 evolutionary patterns in view of the varying spatial, temporal, and biological signals is important for diagnostics, therapeutics, and pharmacovigilance of SARS-CoV-2.
38238530 | A comprehensive profile of SARS-CoV-2 variants spreading during the COVID-19 pandemic: a genomic characterization study from Chhattisgarh State, India. SARS-CoV-2 has expressively changed its sequences during the COVID-19 pandemic situation by encompassing persistent evolutionary mutational changes resulting in the emergence of many clades and lineages. Evolution of these SARS-CoV-2 variants have significantly imparted fitness advantage to the virus, enhanced its transmissibility and severity of the disease. These new variants are a potential threat to the vaccine efficacy as well. It is therefore pertinent to monitor the evolution of these variants and their epidemiological and clinical impact, in a geographic setting. This study has thus looked into the geographic distribution and genetic diversity of SARS-CoV-2 variants and the evolutionary circulation of different clades in Chhattisgarh (CG) state from March 2020 to July 2023. A total of 3018 sequences were retrieved from the GISAID database, in which 558 were submitted by us. The demographic data revealed male preponderance of 56.45% versus 43.54% females, with the overall mean age of 36.5 years. SARS-CoV-2 sequences represented many variants viz., Delta (55%), Omicron (22%) and others (15%) with a small proportion of recombinant (5%), Kappa (2%), and Alpha (1%). The viral clades G was found predominant for a year from initial days of pandemic in March, 2020 to January, 2021 which then subsequently evoluted to subclade GK (Delta B.1.617.2) and remained in circulation in CG till November, 2021. From December 2021, the GRA (Omicron B.1.1.529) variant had replaced GK to become the dominant strain and continues to predominate in present time. GRA clade is however continuously encompassing new recombinant strains, having various non-synonymous mutations especially in spike protein. The non-synonymous mutation P314L in ORF1b, S84L in ORF8 and D614G in spike protein were found as the pan mutation carried over from clade G to GRA. The continuous evolution in SARS-CoV2 warrants periodical geographic genomic surveillance monitoring to timely detect any new variants having the potential of causing future outbreak.
38264170 | A survey of ORF8 sequence and immunoinformatics features during alpha, delta, and wild type peaks of the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic in Iran. Background: The Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic influences all around the world. The SARS-CoV-2 ORF8 accessory gene represents multiple functions in virus-host interaction. The current study aimed to compare the ORF8 substitutions and epitope features of these substitutions in the various SARS-CoV-2 outbreaks including delta, alpha, and wild type variants in Iran from 2020 to 2022. In addition, we evaluate B cell, HLA I and II epitopes, by in-silico approach to ORF8 binding site prediction. Methods: The samples were collected from patients diagnosed with SARS-CoV-2 infection via a real-time PCR assay. Then, a conventional PCR was carried out for ORF8 mutations analysis and further Sanger sequencing. Possible important alterations in epitope features of the ORF8 were evaluated by epitope mapping. B cell, HLA class I and II epitopes, evaluated by online databases ABCpred, NetMHCpan-4.1, and NetMHCIIpan-3.2, respectively. Results: The current study results could not represent novel variations in seven full-length ORF8 sequences or major ORF8 deletions in 80 evaluated samples. In addition, we could not find any ORF8 A382 during each outbreak of variants. Epitope mapping represents differences between the Alpha and other variants, especially in B cell potential epitopes and HLA I. Conclusion: The immunoinformatic evaluation of ORF8 suggested epitopes represent major differences for the Alpha variant in comparison with other variants. In addition, having mild pathogenesis of the Omicron variant does not seem to be associated with ORF8 alteration by phylogenetic evaluation. Future in-vitro studies for a clear conclusion about the epitope features of ORF8 are required.
38275971 | SARS-CoV-2 ORF8 as a Modulator of Cytokine Induction: Evidence and Search for Molecular Mechanisms. Severe cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection are characterized by an immune response that leads to the overproduction of pro-inflammatory cytokines, resulting in lung damage, cardiovascular symptoms, hematologic symptoms, acute kidney injury and multiple organ failure that can lead to death. This remarkable increase in cytokines and other inflammatory molecules is primarily caused by viral proteins, and particular interest has been given to ORF8, a unique accessory protein specific to SARS-CoV-2. Despite plenty of research, the precise mechanisms by which ORF8 induces proinflammatory cytokines are not clear. Our investigations demonstrated that ORF8 augments production of IL-6 induced by Poly(I:C) in human embryonic kidney (HEK)-293 and monocyte-derived dendritic cells (mono-DCs). We discuss our findings and the multifaceted roles of ORF8 as a modulator of cytokine response, focusing on type I interferon and IL-6, a key component of the immune response to SARS-CoV-2. In addition, we explore the hypothesis that ORF8 may act through pattern recognition receptors of dsRNA such as TLRs.
38400051 | Genomic Analyses of Major SARS-CoV-2 Variants Predicting Multiple Regions of Pathogenic and Transmissive Importance. The rapid evolution of SARS-CoV-2 has fueled its global proliferation since its discovery in 2019, with several notable variants having been responsible for increases in cases of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). Analyses of codon bias and usage in these variants between phylogenetic clades or lineages may grant insights into the evolution of SARS-CoV-2 and identify target codons indicative of evolutionary or mutative trends that may prove useful in tracking or defending oneself against emerging strains. We processed a cohort of 120 SARS-CoV-2 genome sequences through a statistical and bioinformatic pipeline to identify codons presenting evidence of selective pressure as well as codon coevolution. We report the identification of two codon sites in the orf8 and N genes demonstrating such evidence with real-world impacts on pathogenicity and transmissivity.
38570164 | Role of SARS-CoV-2 mutations in the evolution of the COVID-19 pandemic. OBJECTIVES: The SARS-CoV-2 pandemic and large-scale genomic surveillance provided an exceptional opportunity to analyze mutations that appeared over three years in viral genomes. Here we studied mutations and their epidemic consequences for SARS-CoV-2 genomes from our center. METHODS: We analyzed 61,397 SARS-CoV-2 genomes we sequenced from respiratory samples for genomic surveillance. Mutations frequencies were calculated using Nextclade, Microsoft Excel, and an in-house Python script. RESULTS: A total of 22,225 nucleotide mutations were identified, 220 (1.0%) being each at the root of >=836 genomes, classifying mutations as 'hyperfertile'. Two seeded the European pandemic: P323L in RNA polymerase, associated with an increased mutation rate, and D614G in spike that improved fitness. Most 'hyperfertile' mutations occurred in areas not predicted with increased virulence. Their mean number was 8+-6 (0-22) per 1,000 nucleotides per gene. They were 3.7-times more frequent in accessory than informational genes (13.9 versus 3.7/1,000 nucleotides). Particularly, they were 4.1-times more frequent in ORF8 than in the RNA polymerase gene. Interestingly, stop codons were present in 97 positions, almost only in accessory genes, including ORF8 (21/100 codons). CONCLUSIONS: most 'hyperfertile' mutations did not predict emergence of a new epidemic, and some were stop codons indicating the existence of so-named 'non-virulence' genes.
38614374 | SARS-CoV-2 Mitochondrial Metabolic and Epigenomic Reprogramming in COVID-19. To determine the effects of SARS-CoV-2 infection on cellular metabolism, we conducted an exhaustive survey of the cellular metabolic pathways modulated by SARS-CoV-2 infection and confirmed their importance for SARS-CoV-2 propagation by cataloging the effects of specific pathway inhibitors. This revealed that SARS-CoV-2 strongly inhibits mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) resulting in increased mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (mROS) production. The elevated mROS stabilizes HIF-1alpha which redirects carbon molecules from mitochondrial oxidation through glycolysis and the pentose phosphate pathway (PPP) to provide substrates for viral biogenesis. mROS also induces the release of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) which activates innate immunity. The restructuring of cellular energy metabolism is mediated in part by SARS-CoV-2 Orf8 and Orf10 whose expression restructures nuclear DNA (nDNA) and mtDNA OXPHOS gene expression. These viral proteins likely alter the epigenome, either by directly altering histone modifications or by modulating mitochondrial metabolite substrates of epigenome modification enzymes, potentially silencing OXPHOS gene expression and contributing to long-COVID.
38615031 | Positive selection underlies repeated knockout of ORF8 in SARS-CoV-2 evolution. Knockout of the ORF8 protein has repeatedly spread through the global viral population during SARS-CoV-2 evolution. Here we use both regional and global pathogen sequencing to explore the selection pressures underlying its loss. In Washington State, we identified transmission clusters with ORF8 knockout throughout SARS-CoV-2 evolution, not just on novel, high fitness viral backbones. Indeed, ORF8 is truncated more frequently and knockouts circulate for longer than for any other gene. Using a global phylogeny, we find evidence of positive selection to explain this phenomenon: nonsense mutations resulting in shortened protein products occur more frequently and are associated with faster clade growth rates than synonymous mutations in ORF8. Loss of ORF8 is also associated with reduced clinical severity, highlighting the diverse clinical impacts of SARS-CoV-2 evolution.
38632523 | Comprehensive genomic analysis of the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant BA.2.76 in Jining City, China, 2022. OBJECTIVE: This study aims to analyze the molecular characteristics of the novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) Omicron variant BA.2.76 in Jining City, China. METHODS: Whole-genome sequencing was performed on 87 cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection. Evolutionary trees were constructed using bioinformatics software to analyze sequence homology, variant sites, N-glycosylation sites, and phosphorylation sites. RESULTS: All 87 SARS-CoV-2 whole-genome sequences were classified under the evolutionary branch of the Omicron variant BA.2.76. Their similarity to the reference strain Wuhan-Hu-1 ranged from 99.72 to 99.74%. In comparison to the reference strain Wuhan-Hu-1, the 87 sequences exhibited 77-84 nucleotide differences and 27 nucleotide deletions. A total of 69 amino acid variant sites, 9 amino acid deletions, and 1 stop codon mutation were identified across 18 proteins. Among them, the spike (S) protein exhibited the highest number of variant sites, and the ORF8 protein showed a Q27 stop mutation. Multiple proteins displayed variations in glycosylation and phosphorylation sites. CONCLUSION: SARS-CoV-2 continues to evolve, giving rise to new strains with enhanced transmission, stronger immune evasion capabilities, and reduced pathogenicity. The application of high-throughput sequencing technologies in the epidemic prevention and control of COVID-19 provides crucial insights into the evolutionary and variant characteristics of the virus at the genomic level, thereby holding significant implications for the prevention and control of the COVID-19 pandemic.
10359829 | Unexpected abundance of self-splicing introns in the genome of bacteriophage Twort: introns in multiple genes, a single gene with three introns, and exon skipping by group I ribozymes. Analysis of RNA that can be labeled with GTP indicates the existence of group I introns in genes of at least three transcriptional classes in the genome of Staphylococcus aureus bacteriophage Twort. A single ORF of 142 amino acids (Orf142) is interrupted by three self-splicing group I introns, providing the first example of a phage gene with multiple intron insertions. Twort Orf142 is encoded in a message that is abundant 15-20 min after infection and is highly similar to a late gene product (Orf8) of the morphologically related Listeria phage A511. The introns in orf142 are spliced in vivo and contain all the conserved features of primary sequence and secondary structure of group I introns in subgroup IA2, which includes the introns in Escherichia coli phage T4 and the Bacillus phages beta22 and SPO1. Introns I2 and I3 in orf142 are highly similar, and their intron insertion sites are closely spaced. The presence of transcripts with a skipped exon between these introns indicates that they may fold into a single active ribozyme resulting in alternative splicing. Alternatively, the cleaved 5' exon preceding I2 may undergo trans splicing to the 3' exon that follows I3. Regardless of the detailed mechanism, these results demonstrate a new means whereby a single gene can give rise to multiple messenger RNAs.
22088674 | Development of a live, attenuated, potential vaccine strain of R. equi expressing vapA and the virR operon, and virulence assessment in the mouse. Pneumonia caused by Rhodococcus equi remains a significant problem in foals. The objective of this study was to develop a safe and efficacious attenuated strain of R. equi for eventual use in oral immunization of foals. The approach involved expression of vapA in a live, virulence plasmid-negative, strain of R. equi (strain 103-). PCR-amplified fragments of the vapA gene, with and without the upstream genes virR, orf5, vapH, orf7 and orf8 (orf4-8), were cloned into a shuttle vector pNBV1. These plasmids, named pAW48A and pAWVapA respectively, were electroporated into strain 103-. The presence of the recombinant vectors in the attenuated strain (103-) and the integrity of the inserted genes were confirmed, and both constructs expressed VapA. The virulence of the two strains was compared to that of wild type R. equi 103+ and negative controls by their intravenous inoculation into mice, followed by examination of liver clearance 4 days later. Mice inoculated with R. equi 103-, 103-/pAWVapA and 103-/pNBV1 completely cleared infection, whereas strain 103-/pAW48A persisted in 47% of mice.
26506338 | Antimycobacterial Activities of Endolysins Derived From a Mycobacteriophage, BTCU-1. The high incidence of Mycobacterium infection, notably multidrug-resistant M. tuberculosis infection, has become a significant public health concern worldwide. In this study, we isolate and analyze a mycobacteriophage, BTCU-1, and a foundational study was performed to evaluate the antimycobacterial activity of BTCU-1 and its cloned lytic endolysins. Using Mycobacterium smegmatis as host, a mycobacteriophage, BTCU-1, was isolated from soil in eastern Taiwan. The electron microscopy images revealed that BTCU-1 displayed morphology resembling the Siphoviridae family. In the genome of BTCU-1, two putative lytic genes, BTCU-1_ORF7 and BTCU-1_ORF8 (termed lysA and lysB, respectively), were identified, and further subcloned and expressed in Escherichia coli. When applied exogenously, both LysA and LysB were active against M. smegmatis tested. Scanning electron microscopy revealed that LysA and LysB caused a remarkable modification of the cell shape of M. smegmatis. Intracellular bactericidal activity assay showed that treatment of M. smegmatis-infected RAW 264.7 macrophages with LysA or LysB resulted in a significant reduction in the number of viable intracellular bacilli. These results indicate that the endolysins derived from BTCU-1 have antimycobacterial activity, and suggest that they are good candidates for therapeutic/disinfectant agents to control mycobacterial infections. 
32415276 | The sprint to solve coronavirus protein structures - and disarm them with drugs. 
32693089 | Mortality in COVID-19 disease patients: Correlating the association of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) with severe acute respiratory syndrome 2 (SARS-CoV-2) variants. Genetic factors such as the HLA type of patients may play a role in regard to disease severity and clinical outcome of patients with COVID-19. Taking the data deposited in the GISAID database, we made predictions using the IEDB analysis resource (TepiTool) to gauge how variants in the SARS-CoV-2 genome may change peptide binding to the most frequent MHC-class I and -II alleles in Africa, Asia and Europe. We caracterized how a single mutation in the wildtype sequence of of SARS-CoV-2 could influence the peptide binding of SARS-CoV-2 variants to MHC class II, but not to MHC class I alleles. Assuming the ORF8 (L84S) mutation is biologically significant, selective pressure from MHC class II alleles may select for viral varients and subsequently shape the quality and quantity of cellular immune responses aginast SARS-CoV-2. MHC 4-digit typing along with viral sequence analysis should be considered in studies examining clinical outcomes in patients with COVID-19.
32814791 | Genome-wide analysis of SARS-CoV-2 virus strains circulating worldwide implicates heterogeneity. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2), a novel evolutionary divergent RNA virus, is responsible for the present devastating COVID-19 pandemic. To explore the genomic signatures, we comprehensively analyzed 2,492 complete and/or near-complete genome sequences of SARS-CoV-2 strains reported from across the globe to the GISAID database up to 30 March 2020. Genome-wide annotations revealed 1,516 nucleotide-level variations at different positions throughout the entire genome of SARS-CoV-2. Moreover, nucleotide (nt) deletion analysis found twelve deletion sites throughout the genome other than previously reported deletions at coding sequence of the ORF8 (open reading frame), spike, and ORF7a proteins, specifically in polyprotein ORF1ab (n = 9), ORF10 (n = 1), and 3 -UTR (n = 2). Evidence from the systematic gene-level mutational and protein profile analyses revealed a large number of amino acid (aa) substitutions (n = 744), demonstrating the viral proteins heterogeneous. Notably, residues of receptor-binding domain (RBD) showing crucial interactions with angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) and cross-reacting neutralizing antibody were found to be conserved among the analyzed virus strains, except for replacement of lysine with arginine at 378th position of the cryptic epitope of a Shanghai isolate, hCoV-19/Shanghai/SH0007/2020 (EPI_ISL_416320). Furthermore, our results of the preliminary epidemiological data on SARS-CoV-2 infections revealed that frequency of aa mutations were relatively higher in the SARS-CoV-2 genome sequences of Europe (43.07%) followed by Asia (38.09%), and North America (29.64%) while case fatality rates remained higher in the European temperate countries, such as Italy, Spain, Netherlands, France, England and Belgium. Thus, the present method of genome annotation employed at this early pandemic stage could be a promising tool for monitoring and tracking the continuously evolving pandemic situation, the associated genetic variants, and their implications for the development of effective control and prophylaxis strategies.
32954047 | Genetic characterization of structural and open reading Fram-8 proteins of SARS-CoV-2 isolates from different countries. Since December 2019, a severe pandemic of pneumonia, COVID-19 associated with a novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2), have emerged in Wuhan, China and spreading throughout the world. As RNA viruses have a high mutation rate therefore we wanted to identify whether this virus is also prone to mutations. For this reason we selected four major structural (Spike protein (S), Envelope protein (E), Membrane glycoprotein (M), Nucleocapsid phosphoprotein (N)) and ORF8 protein of 100 different SARS-CoV-2 isolates of fifteen countries from NCBI database and compared these to the reference sequence, Wuhan NC_045512.2, which was the first isolate of SARS-CoV-2 that was sequenced. By multiple sequence alignment of amino acids, we observed substitutions and deletion in S protein at 13 different sites in the isolates of five countries (China, USA, Finland, India and Australia) as compared to the reference sequence. Similarly, alignment of N protein revealed substitutions at three different sites in isolates of China, Spain and Japan. M protein exhibits substitution only in one isolates from USA, however, no mutation was observed in E protein of any isolate. Interestingly, in ORF8 substitution of Leucine, a nonpolar to Serine a polar amino acid at same position (aa84 L to S) in 23 isolates of five countries i.e. China, USA, Spain, Taiwan and India were observed, which may affect the conformation of peptides. Thus, we observed several mutations in the isolates thereafter the first sequencing of SARS-CoV-2 isolate, NC_045512.2, which suggested that this virus might be a threat to the whole world and therefore further studies are needed to characterize how these mutations in different proteins affect the functionality and pathogenesis of SARS-CoV-2.
33050463 | Genomic Diversity and Hotspot Mutations in 30,983 SARS-CoV-2 Genomes: Moving Toward a Universal Vaccine for the \Confined Virus\? The COVID-19 pandemic has been ongoing since its onset in late November 2019 in Wuhan, China. Understanding and monitoring the genetic evolution of the virus, its geographical characteristics, and its stability are particularly important for controlling the spread of the disease and especially for the development of a universal vaccine covering all circulating strains. From this perspective, we analyzed 30,983 complete SARS-CoV-2 genomes from 79 countries located in the six continents and collected from 24 December 2019, to 13 May 2020, according to the GISAID database. Our analysis revealed the presence of 3206 variant sites, with a uniform distribution of mutation types in different geographic areas. Remarkably, a low frequency of recurrent mutations has been observed; only 169 mutations (5.27%) had a prevalence greater than 1% of genomes. Nevertheless, fourteen non-synonymous hotspot mutations (>10%) have been identified at different locations along the viral genome; eight in ORF1ab polyprotein (in nsp2, nsp3, transmembrane domain, RdRp, helicase, exonuclease, and endoribonuclease), three in nucleocapsid protein, and one in each of three proteins: Spike, ORF3a, and ORF8. Moreover, 36 non-synonymous mutations were identified in the receptor-binding domain (RBD) of the spike protein with a low prevalence (<1%) across all genomes, of which only four could potentially enhance the binding of the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein to the human ACE2 receptor. These results along with intra-genomic divergence of SARS-CoV-2 could indicate that unlike the influenza virus or HIV viruses, SARS-CoV-2 has a low mutation rate which makes the development of an effective global vaccine very likely.
33070542 | Current targets and drug candidates for prevention and treatment of SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) infection. Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), the host cell-binding site for SAR-CoV-2, poses two-fold drug development problems. First, the role of ACE2 itself is still a matter of investigation, and no specific drugs are available targeting ACE2. Second, as a consequence of SARS-CoV-2 interaction with ACE2, there is an impairment of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) involved in the functioning of vital organs like the heart, kidney, brain, and lungs. In developing antiviral drugs for COVID-19, ACE2, RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp), and the specific enzymes involved in the viral and cellular gene expression have been the primary targets. SARS-CoV-2 being a new virus with unusually high mortality, there has been a need to get medicines in an emergency, and the drug repurposing has been a primary strategy. Considering extensive mortality and morbidity throughout the world, we have made a maiden attempt to discover the drugs interacting with RAS and identify the lead compounds from herbal plants using molecular docking. Both host ACE2 and viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) and ORF8 appear to be the primary targets for the treatment of COVID-19. While the drug repurposing of currently approved drugs seems to be one strategy for the treatment of COVID-19, purposing phytochemicals may be another essential strategy for discovering lead compounds. Using in silico molecular docking, we have identified a few phytochemicals that may provide insights into designing herbal and synthetic therapeutics to treat COVID-19.
33372181 | In silico discovery of antigenic proteins and epitopes of SARS-CoV-2 for the development of a vaccine or a diagnostic approach for COVID-19. In the genome of SARS-CoV-2, the 5'-terminus encodes a polyprotein, which is further cleaved into 15 non-structural proteins whereas the 3' terminus encodes four structural proteins and eight accessory proteins. Among these 27 proteins, the present study aimed to discover likely antigenic proteins and epitopes to be used for the development of a vaccine or serodiagnostic assay using an in silico approach. For this purpose, after the full genome analysis of SARS-CoV-2 Wuhan isolate and variant proteins that are detected frequently, surface proteins including spike, envelope, and membrane proteins as well as proteins with signal peptide were determined as probable vaccine candidates whereas the remaining were considered as possible antigens to be used during the development of serodiagnostic assays. According to results obtained, among 27 proteins, 26 of them were predicted as probable antigen. In 26 proteins, spike protein was selected as the best vaccine candidate because of having a signal peptide, negative GRAVY value, one transmembrane helix, moderate aliphatic index, a big molecular weight, a long-estimated half-life, beta wrap motifs as well as having stable, soluble and non-allergic features. In addition, orf7a, orf8, and nsp-10 proteins with signal peptide were considered as potential vaccine candidates. Nucleocapsid protein and a highly antigenic GGDGKMKD epitope were identified as ideal antigens to be used in the development of serodiagnostic assays. Moreover, considering MHC-I alleles, highly antigenic KLNDLCFTNV and ITLCFTLKRK epitopes can be used to develop an epitope-based peptide vaccine.
33501468 | The N501Y mutation in SARS-CoV-2 spike leads to morbidity in obese and aged mice and is neutralized by convalescent and post-vaccination human sera. The current COVID-19 (coronavirus disease 19) pandemic, caused by SARS-CoV-2, disproportionally affects the elderly and people with comorbidities like obesity and associated type 2 diabetes mellitus. Small animal models are crucial for the successful development and validation of antiviral vaccines, therapies and to study the role that comorbidities have on the outcome of viral infections. The initially available SARS-CoV-2 isolates require adaptation in order to use the mouse angiotensin converting enzyme 2 (mACE-2) entry receptor and to productively infect the cells of the murine respiratory tract. We have \mouse-adapted\ SARS-CoV-2 by serial passaging a clinical virus isolate in the lungs of mice. We then used low doses of this virus in mouse models for advanced age, diabetes and obesity. Similar to SARS-CoV-2 infection in humans, the outcome of infection with mouse-adapted SARS-CoV-2 resulted in enhanced morbidity in aged and diabetic obese mice. Mutations associated with mouse adaptation occurred in the S, M, N and ORF8 genes. Interestingly, one mutation in the receptor binding domain of the S protein results in the change of an asparagine to tyrosine residue at position 501 (N501Y). This mutation is also present in the newly emerging SARS-CoV-2 variant viruses reported in the U.K. (20B/501Y.V1, B1.1.7 lineage) that is epidemiologically associated with high human to human transmission. We show that human convalescent and post vaccination sera can neutralize the newly emerging N501Y virus variant with similar efficiency as that of the reference USA-WA1/2020 virus, suggesting that current SARS-CoV-2 vaccines will protect against the 20B/501Y.V1 strain.
33580783 | Functional alterations caused by mutations reflect evolutionary trends of SARS-CoV-2. Since the first report of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) in December 2019, the COVID-19 pandemic has spread rapidly worldwide. Due to the limited virus strains, few key mutations that would be very important with the evolutionary trends of virus genome were observed in early studies. Here, we downloaded 1809 sequence data of SARS-CoV-2 strains from GISAID before April 2020 to identify mutations and functional alterations caused by these mutations. Totally, we identified 1017 nonsynonymous and 512 synonymous mutations with alignment to reference genome NC_045512, none of which were observed in the receptor-binding domain (RBD) of the spike protein. On average, each of the strains could have about 1.75 new mutations each month. The current mutations may have few impacts on antibodies. Although it shows the purifying selection in whole-genome, ORF3a, ORF8 and ORF10 were under positive selection. Only 36 mutations occurred in 1% and more virus strains were further analyzed to reveal linkage disequilibrium (LD) variants and dominant mutations. As a result, we observed five dominant mutations involving three nonsynonymous mutations C28144T, C14408T and A23403G and two synonymous mutations T8782C, and C3037T. These five mutations occurred in almost all strains in April 2020. Besides, we also observed two potential dominant nonsynonymous mutations C1059T and G25563T, which occurred in most of the strains in April 2020. Further functional analysis shows that these mutations decreased protein stability largely, which could lead to a significant reduction of virus virulence. In addition, the A23403G mutation increases the spike-ACE2 interaction and finally leads to the enhancement of its infectivity. All of these proved that the evolution of SARS-CoV-2 is toward the enhancement of infectivity and reduction of virulence.
33723527 | ORF8 contributes to cytokine storm during SARS-CoV-2 infection by activating IL-17 pathway. Recently, COVID-19 caused by the novel coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 has brought great challenges to the world. More and more studies have shown that patients with severe COVID-19 may suffer from cytokine storm syndrome; however, there are few studies on its pathogenesis. Here we demonstrated that SARS-CoV-2 coding protein open reading frame 8 (ORF8) acted as a contributing factor to cytokine storm during COVID-19 infection. ORF8 could activate IL-17 signaling pathway and promote the expression of pro-inflammatory factors. Moreover, we demonstrated that treatment of IL17RA antibody protected mice from ORF8-induced inflammation. Our findings are helpful to understand the pathogenesis of cytokine storm caused by SARS-CoV-2 and provide a potential target for the development of COVID-19 therapeutic drugs.
33776949 | Genotypic Diversity and Pathogenic Potential of Clinical and Environmental Vibrio parahaemolyticus Isolates From Brazil. Vibrio parahaemolyticus strains recovered from human diarrheal stools (one in 1975 and two in 2001) and environmental sources (four, between 2008 and 2010) were investigated for the presence of virulence genes (trh, tdh, and vpadF), pandemic markers (orf8, toxRS new), and with respect to their pathogenic potential in two systemic infection models. Based only on the presence or absence of these genetic markers, they were classified as follows: the environmental strains were non-pathogenic, whereas among the clinical strains, the one isolated in 1975 was pathogenic (non-pandemic), and the other two were pathogenic (pandemic). The pathogenic potential of the strains was evaluated in mice and Galleria mellonella larvae infection models, and except for the clinical (pathogenic, non-pandemic) isolate, the others produced lethal infection in both organisms, regardless of their source, serotype, and genotype (tdh, orf8, toxRS new, and vpadF). Based on mice and larval mortality rates, the strains were then grouped according to virulence (high, intermediate, and avirulent), and remarkably similar results were obtained by using these models: The clinical strain (pathogenic and non-pandemic) was classified as avirulent, and other strains (four non-pathogenic and two pandemic) were considered of high or intermediate virulence. In summary, these findings demonstrate that G. mellonella larvae can indeed be used as an alternative model to study the pathogenicity of V. parahaemolyticus. Moreover, they raise doubts about the use of traditional virulence markers to predict pathogenesis of the species and show that reliable models are indispensable to determine the pathogenic potential of environmental isolates considered non-pathogenic, based on the absence of the long-standing virulence indicators.
33872970 | A unique view of SARS-CoV-2 through the lens of ORF8 protein. Immune evasion is one of the unique characteristics of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) attributed to its ORF8 protein. This protein modulates the adaptive host immunity through down-regulation of MHC-1 (Major Histocompatibility Complex) molecules and innate immune responses by surpassing the host's interferon-mediated antiviral response. To understand the host's immune perspective in reference to the ORF8 protein, a comprehensive study of the ORF8 protein and mutations possessed by it have been performed. Chemical and structural properties of ORF8 proteins from different hosts, such as human, bat, and pangolin, suggest that the ORF8 of SARS-CoV-2 is much closer to ORF8 of Bat RaTG13-CoV than to that of Pangolin-CoV. Eighty-seven mutations across unique variants of ORF8 in SARS-CoV-2 can be grouped into four classes based on their predicted effects (Hussain et al., 2021) [1]. Based on the geo-locations and timescale of sample collection, a possible flow of mutations was built. Furthermore, conclusive flows of amalgamation of mutations were found upon sequence similarity analyses and consideration of the amino acid conservation phylogenies. Therefore, this study seeks to highlight the uniqueness of the rapidly evolving SARS-CoV-2 through the ORF8.
34021074 | The ORF8 protein of SARS-CoV-2 mediates immune evasion through down-regulating MHC-Iota. COVID-19, caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), has become a global pandemic and has claimed over 2 million lives worldwide. Although the genetic sequences of SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2 have high homology, the clinical and pathological characteristics of COVID-19 differ significantly from those of SARS. How and whether SARS-CoV-2 evades (cellular) immune surveillance requires further elucidation. In this study, we show that SARS-CoV-2 infection leads to major histocompability complex class Iota (MHC-Iota) down-regulation both in vitro and in vivo. The viral protein encoded by open reading frame 8 (ORF8) of SARS-CoV-2, which shares the least homology with SARS-CoV among all viral proteins, directly interacts with MHC-Iota molecules and mediates their down-regulation. In ORF8-expressing cells, MHC-Iota molecules are selectively targeted for lysosomal degradation via autophagy. Thus, SARS-CoV-2-infected cells are much less sensitive to lysis by cytotoxic T lymphocytes. Because ORF8 protein impairs the antigen presentation system, inhibition of ORF8 could be a strategy to improve immune surveillance.
34095496 | Association of HLA-DQA2 and HLA-B With Moyamoya Disease in the Chinese Han Population. OBJECTIVE: An HLA imputation was conducted to explore the relationship between HLA and patients with moyamoya disease (MMD) in the Chinese Han population. METHODS: In this study, we performed an association analysis of the major histocompatibility complex region in 2,786 individuals of Chinese Han ancestry (2,031 controls and 755 patients with MMD), through a widely used HLA imputation method. RESULTS: We identified that the variant rs3129731 (odds ratio [OR] = 1.79, p = 3.69 x 10-16) located between the MTCO3P1 and HLA-DQA2 is a major genetic risk factor for MMD. In addition to this variant, found in the conditional association analysis, we also detected another independent signal, rs1071817 (OR = 0.62, p = 1.20 x 10-11), in HLA-B. CONCLUSIONS: Our research suggests that the genetic polymorphism of HLA-DQA2 and HLA-B could be a genetic predisposing factor for MMD in Chinese Han. This may provide some evidence for further HLA-related studies of patients with MMD of Chinese Han ethnicity and indicates that MMD is an immune-related disease.
34096881 | Comprehensive analysis of the major histocompatibility complex in systemic sclerosis identifies differential HLA associations by clinical and serological subtypes. OBJECTIVE: The greatest genetic effect reported for systemic sclerosis (SSc) lies in the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) locus. Leveraging the largest SSc genome-wide association study, we aimed to fine-map this region to identify novel human leucocyte antigen (HLA) genetic variants associated with SSc susceptibility and its main clinical and serological subtypes. METHODS: 9095 patients with SSc and 17 584 controls genome-wide genotyped were used to impute and test single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) across the MHC, classical HLA alleles and their composite amino acid residues. Additionally, patients were stratified according to their clinical and serological status, namely, limited cutaneous systemic sclerosis (lcSSc), diffuse cutaneous systemic sclerosis (dcSSc), anticentromere (ACA), antitopoisomerase (ATA) and anti-RNApolIII autoantibodies (ARA). RESULTS: Sequential conditional analyses showed nine SNPs, nine classical alleles and seven amino acids that modelled the observed associations with SSc. This confirmed previously reported associations with HLA-DRB1*11:04 and HLA-DPB1*13:01, and revealed a novel association of HLA-B*08:01. Stratified analyses showed specific associations of HLA-DQA1*02:01 with lcSSc, and an exclusive association of HLA-DQA1*05:01 with dcSSc. Similarly, private associations were detected in HLA-DRB1*08:01 and confirmed the previously reported association of HLA-DRB1*07:01 with ACA-positive patients, as opposed to the HLA-DPA1*02:01 and HLA-DQB1*03:01 alleles associated with ATA presentation. CONCLUSIONS: This study confirms the contribution of HLA class II and reveals a novel association of HLA class I with SSc, suggesting novel pathways of disease pathogenesis. Furthermore, we describe specific HLA associations with SSc clinical and serological subtypes that could serve as biomarkers of disease severity and progression.
34425847 | Frequency of juvenile idiopathic arthritis and associated uveitis in pediatric rheumatology clinics in Turkey: A retrospective study, JUPITER. BACKGROUND: Juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA), is the most common pediatric rheumatologic disorder with unknown etiology. Currently, no population-based data are available regarding the distribution of categories and frequency of uveitis in patients with JIA in Turkey. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the frequency of JIA-associated uveitis (JIAU) and distribution of JIA categories in a Turkish JIA cohort. METHODS: This was a retrospective study of 500 randomized patients in four pediatric rheumatology clinics in Turkey. RESULTS: Oligoarticular JIA (oJIA) was the most common JIA disease category in this study cohort (38.8%). The frequencies of the other categories were as follows: enthesitis-related arthritis (ERA), 23.2%; rheumatoid factor (RF)-negative polyarthritis, 15.6%; systemic arthritis, 12.2%; juvenile psoriatic arthritis, 5.2%; undifferentiated arthritis, 2.8%; and RF-positive polyarthritis, 2.2%. JIA-associated uveitis was observed in 6.8% of patients at a mean (Standard Deviation, SD) age of 9.1 (3.8) years over a mean JIA disease duration of 4 (1.9) years. Uveitis developed after joint disease, with a mean (SD) duration of 1.8 (1.9) years. Patients with oJIA had the highest rate of uveitis (12.9%) followed by patients with ERA (5.2%) and polyarticular RF-negative disease (3.8%). Compared with persistent oJIA, the extended oJIA category had a > 3-fold higher risk of uveitis (11.3% vs 27.7%; odds ratio, 3.38 [95% Confidence Interval, 1.09-10.4]). The most frequently administered drug after development of uveitis was tumor necrosis factor-alpha inhibitors (38.2%). Five patients (14.7%) had uveitis-related complications that required surgical intervention. CONCLUSIONS: Turkish pediatric patients with JIA experience a lower frequency of oJIA and higher frequency of ERA than their white European counterparts; the occurrence of uveitis is also somewhat lower than expected. Geographic and ethnic factors may affect these differences and need further investigation.
34489470 | Structural engineering of chimeric antigen receptors targeting HLA-restricted neoantigens. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells have emerged as a promising class of therapeutic agents, generating remarkable responses in the clinic for a subset of human cancers. One major challenge precluding the wider implementation of CAR therapy is the paucity of tumor-specific antigens. Here, we describe the development of a CAR targeting the tumor-specific isocitrate dehydrogenase 2 (IDH2) with R140Q mutation presented on the cell surface in complex with a common human leukocyte antigen allele, HLA-B*07:02. Engineering of the hinge domain of the CAR, as well as crystal structure-guided optimization of the IDH2R140Q-HLA-B*07:02-targeting moiety, enhances the sensitivity and specificity of CARs to enable targeting of this HLA-restricted neoantigen. This approach thus holds promise for the development and optimization of immunotherapies specific to other cancer driver mutations that are difficult to target by conventional means.
34817576 | A Novel Clinical Five-Risk Factor Panel for Individualized Recurrence Risk Assessment of Patients With Acute Anterior Uveitis. Purpose: Detecting and managing relapses of acute anterior uveitis (AAU) is necessary for improving follow-up planning to minimize recurrences and further complications. However, reliable clinical and laboratory risk factors are lacking, as is a predictive model for use in clinical practice that is capable of identifying patients at high risk for recurrence after remission. Methods: We analyzed 38 laboratory parameters and clinical data from a large longitudinal retrospective cohort of 233 patients with AAU. Association of laboratory parameters with recurrence-free survival (RFS) was evaluated using univariate Cox proportional hazards regression. A clinically applicable predictive model was developed using a logistic regression model. Results: Of the 38 laboratory parameters studied, we identified 5 parameters (HDL, ankylosing spondylitis, HLA-B27, MO, and LDL) to be associated with RFS. We developed a clinical five-risk factor panel (5RF-panel), which was capable of effectively distinguishing recurrent patients from nonrelapsed patients (area under the curve [AUC] = 0.837), as well as between patients with high and low risks of AAU recurrence (hazard ratio [HR] = 45.874, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 5.232-402.2, P < 0.001). The robust performance of the 5RF-panel was further validated in the testing cohort (AUC = 0.725, and HR = 51.982, 95% CI = 4.438-608.9, P = 0.024). Furthermore, the 5RF-panel demonstrated superior performance in stratifying recurrence risk based on known risk factors. Conclusions: We identified and validated a novel clinical 5RF-panel to predict individualized risk of AAU recurrence and improved patient classification for clinical management. Translational Relevance: The present study identified and validated a 5RF-panel that is a promising individualized predictive tool to monitor recurrence risk and guide personalized management of patients with AAU.
35085577 | The importance of accessory protein variants in the pathogenicity of SARS-CoV-2. The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is caused by the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus-2 (SARS- CoV-2) with an estimated fatality rate of less than 1%. The SARS-CoV-2 accessory proteins ORF3a, ORF6, ORF7a, ORF7b, ORF8, and ORF10 possess putative functions to manipulate host immune mechanisms. These involve interferons, which appear as a consensus function, immune signaling receptor NLRP3 (NLR family pyrin domain-containing 3) inflammasome, and inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin 1beta (IL-1beta) and are critical in COVID-19 pathology. Outspread variations of each of the six accessory proteins were observed across six continents of all complete SARS-CoV-2 proteomes based on the data reported before November 2020. A decreasing order of percentage of unique variations in the accessory proteins was determined as ORF3a > ORF8 > ORF7a > ORF6 > ORF10 > ORF7b across all continents. The highest and lowest unique variations of ORF3a were observed in South America and Oceania, respectively. These findings suggest that the wide variations in accessory proteins seem to affect the pathogenicity of SARS-CoV-2.
35243596 | Defective ORF8 dimerization in SARS-CoV-2 delta variant leads to a better adaptive immune response due to abrogation of ORF8-MHC1 interaction. In India, during the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, the breakthrough infections were mainly caused by the SARS-COV-2 delta variant (B.1.617.2). It was reported that, among majority of the infections due to the delta variant, only 9.8% percent cases required hospitalization, whereas only 0.4% fatality was observed. Sudden dropdown in COVID-19 infections cases were observed within a short timeframe, suggesting better host adaptation with evolved delta variant. Downregulation of host immune response against SARS-CoV-2 by ORF8 induced MHC-I degradation has been reported earlier. The Delta variant carried mutations (deletion) at Asp119 and Phe120 amino acids which are critical for ORF8 dimerization. The deletions of amino acids Asp119 and Phe120 in ORF8 of delta variant resulted in structural instability of ORF8 dimer caused by disruption of hydrogen bonds and salt bridges as revealed by structural analysis and MD simulation studies. Further, flexible docking of wild type and mutant ORF8 dimer revealed reduced interaction of mutant ORF8 dimer with MHC-I as compared to wild-type ORF8 dimer with MHC-1, thus implicating its possible role in MHC-I expression and host immune response against SARS-CoV-2. We thus propose that mutant ORF8 of SARS-CoV-2 delta variant may not be hindering the MHC-I expression thereby resulting in a better immune response against the SARS-CoV-2 delta variant, which partly explains the possible reason for sudden drop of SARS-CoV-2 infection rate in the second wave of SARS-CoV-2 predominated by delta variant in India.
35266951 | Evolutionary history of the SARS-CoV-2 Gamma variant of concern (P.1): a perfect storm. Our goal was to describe in more detail the evolutionary history of Gamma and two derived lineages (P.1.1 and P.1.2), which are part of the arms race that SARS-CoV-2 wages with its host. A total of 4,977 sequences of the Gamma strain of SARS-CoV-2 from Brazil were analyzed. We detected 194 sites under positive selection in 12 genes/ORFs: Spike, N, M, E, ORF1a, ORF1b, ORF3, ORF6, ORF7a, ORF7b, ORF8, and ORF10. Some diagnostic sites for Gamma lacked a signature of positive selection in our study, but these were not fixed, apparently escaping the action of purifying selection. Our network analyses revealed branches leading to expanding haplotypes with sites under selection only detected when P.1.1 and P.1.2 were considered. The P.1.2 exclusive haplotype H_5 originated from a non-synonymous mutational step (H3509Y) in H_1 of ORF1a. The selected allele, 3509Y, represents an adaptive novelty involving ORF1a of P.1. Finally, we discuss how phenomena such as epistasis and antagonistic pleiotropy could limit the emergence of new alleles (and combinations thereof) in SARS-COV-2 lineages, maintaining infectivity in humans, while providing rapid response capabilities to face the arms race triggered by host immuneresponses.
35311586 | Profiling of SARS-CoV-2 Subgenomic RNAs in Clinical Specimens. SARS-CoV-2 transcribes a set of subgenomic RNAs (sgRNAs) essential for the translation of structural and accessory proteins to sustain its life cycle. We applied RNA-seq on 375 respiratory samples from individual COVID-19 patients and revealed that the majority of the sgRNAs were canonical transcripts with N being the most abundant (36.2%), followed by S (11.6%), open reading frame 7a (ORF7a; 10.3%), M (8.4%), ORF3a (7.9%), ORF8 (6.0%), E (4.6%), ORF6 (2.5%), and ORF7b (0.3%); but ORF10 was not detected. The profile of most sgRNAs, except N, showed an independent association with viral load, time of specimen collection after onset, age of the patient, and S-614D/G variant with ORF7b and then ORF6 being the most sensitive to changes in these characteristics. Monitoring of 124 serial samples from 10 patients using sgRNA-specific real-time RT-PCR revealed a potential of adopting sgRNA as a marker of viral activity. Respiratory samples harboring a full set of canonical sgRNAs were mainly collected early within 1 to 2 weeks from onset, and most of the stool samples (90%) were negative for sgRNAs despite testing positive by diagnostic PCR targeting genomic RNA. ORF7b was the first to become undetectable and again being the most sensitive surrogate marker for a full set of canonical sgRNAs in clinical samples. The potential of using sgRNA to monitor viral activity and progression of SARS-CoV-2 infection, and hence as one of the objective indicators to triage patients for isolation and treatment should be considered. IMPORTANCE Attempts to use subgenomic RNAs (sgRNAs) of SARS-CoV-2 to identify active infection of COVID-19 have produced diverse results. In this work, we applied next-generation sequencing and RT-PCR to profile the full spectrum of SARS-CoV-2 sgRNAs in a large cohort of respiratory and stool samples collected throughout infection. Numerous known and novel discontinuous transcription events potentially encoding full-length, deleted and frameshift proteins were observed. In particular, the expression profile of canonical sgRNAs was associated with genomic RNA level and clinical characteristics. Our study found sgRNAs as potential biomarkers for monitoring infectivity and progression of SARS-CoV-2 infection, which provides an alternative target for the management and treatment of COVID-19 patients.
35315558 | A novel hexa-segmented dsRNA mycovirus confers hypovirulence in the phytopathogenic fungus Diaporthe pseudophoenicicola. A novel hexa-segmented double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) mycovirus was isolated and characterized from the filamentous phytopathogenic fungus Diaporthe pseudophoenicicola and was named Diaporthe pseudophoenicicola chrysovirus 1 (DpCV1). The full-length cDNAs of dsRNA1-6 were 3335, 3030, 3039, 2980, 963, and 780 bp, respectively. Sequence analysis indicated the presence of nine open reading frames (ORFs) in the DpCV1 genome. ORF1 in dsRNA1 putatively encoded the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) and ORF3 in dsRNA2 encoded a capsid protein (CP). The seven remaining ORFs, ORF2 in dsRNA2, ORF4 in dsRNA3, ORF6, seven in dsRNA4, ORF8 in dsRNA5, and ORF9 in dsRNA6, encoded proteins with unknown functions. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that DpCV1 is closely related to members of the cluster I group within the family Chrysoviridae but formed a separate clade. Importantly, all the six segments of DpCV1 were cured successfully through single spore isolation to obtain the isogenic virus-free strains. DpCV1 can confer hypovirulence to the fungal host of Diaporthe pseudophoenicicola. Compared with the virus-free strain, WC02 harbouring the DpCV1 is more sensitive to fungicide prochloraz. Furthermore, the cell wall of DpCV1 infected strain was loose and enlarged. This is the first report of a hexa-segmented tentative chrysovirus in D. pseudophoenicicola.
35341060 | An issue of concern: unique truncated ORF8 protein variants of SARS-CoV-2. Open reading frame 8 (ORF8) shows one of the highest levels of variability among accessory proteins in Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), the causative agent of Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19). It was previously reported that the ORF8 protein inhibits the presentation of viral antigens by the major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I), which interacts with host factors involved in pulmonary inflammation. The ORF8 protein assists SARS-CoV-2 in evading immunity and plays a role in SARS-CoV-2 replication. Among many contributing mutations, Q27STOP, a mutation in the ORF8 protein, defines the B.1.1.7 lineage of SARS-CoV-2, engendering the second wave of COVID-19. In the present study, 47 unique truncated ORF8 proteins (T-ORF8) with the Q27STOP mutations were identified among 49,055 available B.1.1.7 SARS-CoV-2 sequences. The results show that only one of the 47 T-ORF8 variants spread to over 57 geo-locations in North America, and other continents, which include Africa, Asia, Europe and South America. Based on various quantitative features, such as amino acid homology, polar/non-polar sequence homology, Shannon entropy conservation, and other physicochemical properties of all specific 47 T-ORF8 protein variants, nine possible T-ORF8 unique variants were defined. The question as to whether T-ORF8 variants function similarly to the wild type ORF8 is yet to be investigated. A positive response to the question could exacerbate future COVID-19 waves, necessitating severe containment measures.
35467426 | Epidemiology and Genomic Characterization of Two Novel SARS-Related Coronaviruses in Horseshoe Bats from Guangdong, China. Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) coronavirus (SARS-CoV) and SARS-CoV-2, the causative agents of SARS, which broke out in 2003, and coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-2019), which broke out in 2019, probably originated in Rhinolophus sinicus and R. affinis, respectively. Rhinolophus bats are important hosts for coronaviruses. Many SARS-related coronaviruses (SARSr-CoVs) have been detected in bats from different areas of China; however, the diversity of bat SARSr-CoVs is increasing, and their transmission mechanisms have attracted much attention. Here, we report the findings of SARSr-CoVs in R. sinicus and R. affinis from South China from 2008 to 2021. The full-length genome sequences of the two novel SARSr-CoVs obtained from Guangdong shared 83 to 88% and 71 to 72% nucleotide identities with human SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2, respectively, while sharing high similarity with human SARS-CoV in hypervariable open reading frame 8 (ORF8). Significant recombination occurred between the two novel SARSr-CoVs. Phylogenetic analysis showed that the two novel bat SARSr-CoVs from Guangdong were more distant than the bat SARSr-CoVs from Yunnan to human SARS-CoV. We found that transmission in bats contributes more to virus diversity than time. Although our results of the sequence analysis of the receptor-binding motif (RBM) and the expression pattern of angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) inferred that these viruses could not directly infect humans, risks still exist after some unpredictable mutations. Thus, this study increased our understanding of the genetic diversity and transmission of SARSr-CoVs carried by bats in the field. IMPORTANCE Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) and SARS-CoV-2 probably originated from the SARS-related coronaviruses (SARSr-CoVs) carried by Rhinolophus bats from Yunnan, China. Systematic investigations of the reservoir hosts carrying SARSr-CoVs in Guangdong and the reservoir distribution and transmission are urgently needed to prevent future outbreaks. Here, we detected SARSr-CoV in Rhinolophus bat samples from Guangdong in 2009 and 2021 and found that the transmission of SARSr-CoV from different host populations contributes more to increased virus diversity than time. Bat SARSr-CoVs in Guangdong had genetic diversity, and Guangdong was also the hot spot for SARSr-CoVs. We once again prove that R. sinicus plays an important role in the maintenance of the SARS-CoVs. Besides, the SARSr-CoVs are mainly transmitted through the intestines in bats, and these SARSr-CoVs found in Guangdong could not use human ACE2 (hACE2), but whether they can pass through intermediate hosts or directly infect humans requires further research. Our findings demonstrate the ability of SARSr-CoVs to spread across species.
35570330 | ORF8 protein of SARS-CoV-2 reduces male fertility in mice. As one of the most rapidly evolving proteins of the genus Betacoronavirus, open reading frames (ORF8's) function and potential pathological consequence in vivo are still obscure. In this study, we show that the secretion of ORF8 is dependent on its N-terminal signal peptide sequence and can be inhibited by reactive oxygen species scavenger and endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi transportation inhibitor in cultured cells. To trace the effect of its possible in vivo secretion, we examined the plasma samples of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) convalescent patients and found that the patients aged from 40 to 60 had higher antibody titers than those under 40. To explore ORF8's in vivo function, we administered the mice with ORF8 via tail-vein injection to simulate the circulating ORF8 in the patient. Although no apparent difference in body weight, food intake, and vitality was detected between vehicle- and ORF8-treated mice, the latter displayed morphological abnormalities of testes and epididymides, as indicated by the loss of the central ductal lumen accompanied by a decreased fertility in 5-week-old male mice. Furthermore, the analysis of gene expression in the testes between vehicle- and ORF8-treated mice identified a decreased expression of Col1a1, the loss of which is known to be associated with mice's infertility. Although whether our observation in mice could be translated to humans remains unclear, our study provides a potential mouse model that can be used to investigate the impact of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection on the human reproductive system.
35590466 | COVID-19 and erythrocrine function: The roller coaster and danger. Erythrocrine function refers to erythrocytes' ability to synthesize and release active signaling molecules such as ATP and nitric oxide (NO). Erythrocyte NO regulates its deformability and increases its perfusion and circulation that prevent tissue hypoxia. Recently, there is a connotation between SARS-CoV-2 infection and erythrocrine function due to alteration in the release of NO and ATP from erythrocytes. SARS-CoV-2 binds erythrocyte band3 protein, which has a similar characteristic of ACE2, leading to alteration of erythrocyte physiology like oxygen transport with development of hypoxia. Similarly, SARS-CoV-2 infection activates erythrocyte protein kinase C alpha (PKC-alpha), causing significant changes in the erythrocyte functions. The erythrocytes can bind SARS-CoV-2 and its active particles with subsequent virus delivery to the liver and spleen macrophages. Thus, the erythrocytes act as elimination for SARS-CoV-2 in COVID-19. Moreover, the erythrocyte stored, release sphingosine-1 phosphate (S1P) improves endothelial and regulates lymphocyte functions. SARS-CoV-2 ORF8 protein binds the porphyrin part of hemoglobin heme at the beta1 chain, causing hemolysis and dysfunctional hemoglobin to reduce oxygen-carrying capacity. In conclusion, SARS-CoV-2 infection and associated pro-inflammatory disorders lead to abnormal erythrocrine function with subsequent inflammatory complications and endothelial dysfunction due to deficiency of protective released molecules (NO, G1P, and ATP) from functional erythrocytes. In vitro, preclinical, and clinical studies are mandatory in this regard.
35687905 | Conjugation with 8-arm PEG and CRM197 enhances the immunogenicity of SARS-CoV-2 ORF8 protein. Safe and effective vaccines are urgently needed to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. However, the SARS-CoV-2 variants raise concerns about the effectiveness of vaccines. As a SARS-CoV-2 antigen target, ORF8 strongly inhibits the IFN-beta and NF-kappaB-responsive promoter, and can be potentially used for the development of SARS-CoV-2 vaccine. However, it is necessary to improve the immunogenicity of ORF8 by adjuvants or delivery systems. CRM197 was a carrier protein with the ability to activate T helper cells for antigens. Eight-arm PEG could conjugate multiple antigen molecules in one entity with inherent adjuvant effect. In the present study, ORF8 was conjugated with CRM197 and 8-arm PEG, respectively. The cellular and humoral immune responses to the conjugates (ORF8-CRM and ORF8-PEG) were evaluated in the BALB/c mice. As compared with ORF8-CRM and ORF8 administrated with aluminum adjuvant (ORF8/AL), ORF8-PEG induced a higher ORF8-specific IgG titer (2.6 x 104), higher levels of cytokines (IFN-gamma, TNF-alpha, IFN-beta, and IL-5), stronger splenocyte proliferation. Thus, conjugation with 8-arm PEG was an effective method to improve the immune response to ORF8. Moreover, ORF8-PEG did not lead to apparent toxicity to the cardiac, liver and renal functions. ORF8-PEG was expected to act as an effective vaccine to provide the immune protection against SARS-CoV-2.
35764775 | Temporal changes in the accessory protein mutations of SARS-CoV-2 variants and their predicted structural and functional effects. Emerging variants enable the continuous spread of SARS-CoV-2 in humans. The factors contributing to behavioral differences in variants remain elusive despite associations with several Spike protein mutations. Exploring accessory proteins may provide a wider understanding of these differences since these proteins may affect viral processes that occur beyond infection. Various bioinformatics tools were utilized to identify significant accessory protein mutations and determine their structural and functional effects over time. The ViruClust web application was used to retrieve accessory protein amino acid sequences and determine mutation frequencies in these sequences across time. The structural and functional effects of the mutations were determined using Missense3D and PROVEAN, respectively. The accessory and Spike protein mutations were compared using mutation densities. Q57H and T151I of ORF3a; T21I and W27L of ORF6; G38V, V82A, and T120I of ORF7a; S31P and T40I of ORF7b; and R52I, C61F, and I121L of ORF8 were highly frequent in most variants of concern and were within known functional domains. Thus, these are good candidates for further experimental evaluation. Among the accessory proteins, ORF6 and ORF8 were highlighted because of their strong and weak correlation with Spike protein mutations, respectively.
36265309 | The role of SARS-CoV-2 accessory proteins in immune evasion. Many questions on the SARS-CoV-2 pathogenesis remain to answer. The SARS-CoV-2 genome encodes some accessory proteins that are essential for infection. Notably, accessory proteins of SARS-CoV-2 play significant roles in affecting immune escape and viral pathogenesis. Therefore SARS-CoV-2 accessory proteins could be considered putative drug targets. IFN-I and IFN-III responses are the primary mechanisms of innate antiviral immunity in infection clearance. Previous research has shown that SARS-CoV-2 suppresses IFN-beta by infecting host cells via ORF3a, ORF3b, ORF6, ORF7a, ORF7b, ORF8, and ORF9b. Furthermore, ORF3a, ORF7a, and ORF7b have a role in blocking IFNalpha signaling, and ORF8 represses IFNbeta signaling. The ORF3a, ORF7a, and ORF7b disrupt the STAT1/2 phosphorylation. ORF3a, ORF6, ORF7a, and ORF7b could prevent the ISRE promoter activity. The main SARS-CoV-2 accessory proteins involved in immune evasion are discussed here for comprehensive learning on viral entry, replication, and transmission in vaccines and antiviral development.
36353628 | SARS-CoV-2 ORF8: One protein, seemingly one structure, and many functions. SARS-CoV-2 is the virus responsible for the COVID-19 pandemic. The genome of SARS-CoV-2 encodes nine accessory proteins that are involved in host-pathogen interaction. ORF8 is unique among these accessory proteins. SARS-CoV-2 ORF8 shares a surprisingly low amino acid sequence similarity with SARS-COV ORF8 (30%), and it is presumed to have originated from bat. Studies have shown that ORF8 exerts multiple different functions that interfere with host immune responses, including the downregulation of MHC class I molecules. These functions may represent strategies of host immune evasion. The x-ray crystal structure of ORF8 revealed an immunoglobulin-like domain with several distinguishing features. To date, there are numerous unanswered questions about SARS-CoV-2 ORF8 protein and its structure-function relationship that we discuss in this mini-review. A better understanding of how ORF8 interacts with components of the immune system is needed for elucidating COVID-19 pathogenesis and to develop new avenues for the treatment of the disease.
36569921 | A bias of Asparagine to Lysine mutations in SARS-CoV-2 outside the receptor binding domain affects protein flexibility. Introduction: COVID-19 pandemic has been threatening public health and economic development worldwide for over two years. Compared with the original SARS-CoV-2 strain reported in 2019, the Omicron variant (B.1.1.529.1) is more transmissible. This variant has 34 mutations in its Spike protein, 15 of which are present in the Receptor Binding Domain (RBD), facilitating viral internalization via binding to the angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) receptor on endothelial cells as well as promoting increased immune evasion capacity. Methods: Herein we compared SARS-CoV-2 proteins (including ORF3a, ORF7, ORF8, Nucleoprotein (N), membrane protein (M) and Spike (S) proteins) from multiple ancestral strains. We included the currently designated original Variant of Concern (VOC) Omicron, its subsequent emerged variants BA.1, BA2, BA3, BA.4, BA.5, the two currently emerging variants BQ.1 and BBX.1, and compared these with the previously circulating VOCs Alpha, Beta, Gamma, and Delta, to better understand the nature and potential impact of Omicron specific mutations. Results: Only in Omicron and its subvariants, a bias toward an Asparagine to Lysine (N to K) mutation was evident within the Spike protein, including regions outside the RBD domain, while none of the regions outside the Spike protein domain were characterized by this mutational bias. Computational structural analysis revealed that three of these specific mutations located in the central core region, contribute to a preference for the alteration of conformations of the Spike protein. Several mutations in the RBD which have circulated across most Omicron subvariants were also analysed, and these showed more potential for immune escape. Conclusion: This study emphasizes the importance of understanding how specific N to K mutations outside of the RBD region affect SARS-CoV-2 conformational changes and the need for neutralizing antibodies for Omicron to target a subset of conformationally dependent B cell epitopes.
36755883 | Mutational characterization of Omicron SARS-CoV-2 lineages circulating in Chhattisgarh, a central state of India. Introduction: The emergence of the Omicron SARS-CoV-2 variant from various states of India in early 2022 has caused fear of its rapid spread. The lack of such reports from Chhattisgarh (CG), a central state in India, has prompted us to identify the Omicron circulating lineages and their mutational dynamics. Materials and methods: Whole-genome sequencing (WGS) of SARS-CoV-2 was performed in 108 SARS-CoV-2 positive combined samples of nasopharyngeal and oropharyngeal swabs obtained from an equal number of patients. Results: All 108 SARS-CoV-2 sequences belonged to Omicron of clade 21L (84%), 22B (11%), and 22D (5%). BA.2 and its sub-lineages were predominantly found in 93.5% of patients, BA.5.2 and its sub-lineage BA.5.2.1 in 4.6% of patients, and B.1.1.529 in 2% of patients. Various BA.2 sub-lineages identified were BA.2 (38%), BA.2.38 (32%), BA.2.75 (9.25%), BA.2.56, BA.2.76, and BA.5.2.1 (5% each), BA.2.74 (4.6%), BA.5.2.1 (3.7%), BA.2.43 and B.1.1.529 (1.8% each), and BA.5.2 (0.9%). Maximum mutations were noticed in the spike (46), followed by the nucleocapsid (5), membrane (3), and envelope (2) genes. Mutations detected in the spike gene of different Omicron variants were BA.1.1.529 (32), BA.2 (44), BA.2.38 (37), BA.2.43 (38), BA.2.56 (30), BA.2.74 (31), BA.2.75 (37), BA.2.76 (32), BA.5.2, and BA.5.2.1 (38 similar mutations). The spike gene showed the signature mutations of T19I and V213G in the N-terminal domain (NTD), S373P, S375F, T376A, and D405N in receptor-binding domain (RBD), D614G, H655Y, N679K, and P681H at the furin cleavage site, N764K and D796K in fusion peptide, and Q954H and N969K in heptapeptide repeat sequence (HR)1. Notably, BA.2.43 exhibited a novel mutation of E1202Q in the C terminal. Other sites included ORF1a harboring 13 mutations followed by ORF1b (6), ORF3a (2), and ORF6 and ORF8 (1 mutation each). Conclusion: BA.2 followed by BA.2.38 was the predominant Omicron lineage circulating in Chhattisgarh. BA.2.75 could supersede other Omicron due to its mutational consortium advantage. The periodical genomic monitoring of Omicron variants is thus required for real-time assessment of circulating strains and their mutational-induced severity.
36786981 | Relationship of Covid-19 Severity with SARS-CoV-2 NS8 Protein Mutations Depending on Virus Strain. In mid-2021, the Delta strain of SARS-CoV-2 caused the third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. Huge efforts have been devoted to studying the effect of its mutations on the effectiveness of neutralizing antibodies. Much less attention was paid to the individual features of the presentation of its peptides by molecules of the major histocompatibility complex class I (MCHC-I). In this study, the correlation of the HLA-I genotype of patients under the age of 60 years with the severity of COVID-19 caused by the two most common variants of the SARS-CoV-2 Delta strain in the summer of 2021: AY.122 and B.1.617.2 was studied. Analysis of the severity of the course of COVID-19 revealed a more severe course of the disease caused by the AY.122 variant. Comparison of the mutation profile of the two most common variants of the Delta strain showed that that the G8R mutation in the NS8 protein makes the greatest contribution to the ability of MHC-I to present viral peptides. Given that the NS8 protein is able to suppress the maturation of MHC-I molecules, the appearance of a mutation in one of its immunogenic epitopes could make a significant contribution to the prevalence of the AY.122 variant in the Russian population.
36827221 | SARS-CoV-2 ORF8 dimerization and binding mode analysis with class I MHC: computational approaches to identify COVID-19 inhibitors. SARS-CoV-2 encodes eight accessory proteins, one of which, ORF8, has a poorly conserved sequence with SARS-CoV and its role in viral pathogenicity has recently been identified. ORF8 in SARS-CoV-2 has a unique functional feature that allows it to form a dimer structure linked by a disulfide bridge between Cys20 and Cys20 (S-S). This study provides structural characterization of natural mutant variants as well as the identification of potential drug candidates capable of binding directly to the interchain disulfide bridge. The lead compounds reported in this work have a tendency to settle in the dimeric interfaces by direct interaction with the disulfide bridge. These molecules may disturb the dimer formation and may have an inhibition impact on its potential functional role in host immune evasion and virulence pathogenicity. This work provides detailed insights on the sequence and structural variability through computational mutational studies, as well as potent drug candidates with the ability to interrupt the intermolecular disulfide bridge formed between Cys20 and Cys20. Furthermore, the interactions of ORF8 peptides complexed with MHC-1 is studied, and the binding mode reveals that certain ORF8 peptides bind to MHC-1 in a manner similar to other viral peptides. Overall, this study is a narrative of various computational approaches used to provide detailed structural insights into SARS-CoV-2 ORF8 interchain disulfide bond disruptors.
36829234 | Intragenomic rearrangements involving 5'-untranslated region segments in SARS-CoV-2, other betacoronaviruses, and alphacoronaviruses. BACKGROUND: Variation of the betacoronavirus SARS-CoV-2 has been the bane of COVID-19 control. Documented variation includes point mutations, deletions, insertions, and recombination among closely or distantly related coronaviruses. Here, we describe yet another aspect of genome variation by beta- and alphacoronaviruses that was first documented in an infectious isolate of the betacoronavirus SARS-CoV-2, obtained from 3 patients in Hong Kong that had a 5'-untranslated region segment at the end of the ORF6 gene that in its new location translated into an ORF6 protein with a predicted modified carboxyl terminus. While comparing the amino acid sequences of translated ORF8 genes in the GenBank database, we found a subsegment of the same 5'-UTR-derived amino acid sequence modifying the distal end of ORF8 of an isolate from the United States and decided to carry out a systematic search. METHODS: Using the nucleotide and in the case of SARS-CoV-2 also the translated amino acid sequence in three reading frames of the genomic termini of coronaviruses as query sequences, we searched for 5'-UTR sequences in regions other than the 5'-UTR in SARS-CoV-2 and reference strains of alpha-, beta-, gamma-, and delta-coronaviruses. RESULTS: We here report numerous genomic insertions of 5'-untranslated region sequences into coding regions of SARS-CoV-2, other betacoronaviruses, and alphacoronaviruses, but not delta- or gammacoronaviruses. To our knowledge this is the first systematic description of such insertions. In many cases, these insertions would change viral protein sequences and further foster genomic flexibility and viral adaptability through insertion of transcription regulatory sequences in novel positions within the genome. Among human Embecorivus betacoronaviruses, for instance, from 65% to all of the surveyed sequences in publicly available databases contain inserted 5'-UTR sequences. CONCLUSION: The intragenomic rearrangements involving 5'-untranslated region sequences described here, which in several cases affect highly conserved genes with a low propensity for recombination, may underlie the generation of variants homotypic with those of concern or interest and with potentially differing pathogenic profiles. Intragenomic rearrangements thus add to our appreciation of how variants of SARS-CoV-2 and other beta- and alphacoronaviruses may arise.
36992320 | Dissecting Phenotype from Genotype with Clinical Isolates of SARS-CoV-2 First Wave Variants. The emergence and availability of closely related clinical isolates of SARS-CoV-2 offers a unique opportunity to identify novel nonsynonymous mutations that may impact phenotype. Global sequencing efforts show that SARS-CoV-2 variants have emerged and then been replaced since the beginning of the pandemic, yet we have limited information regarding the breadth of variant-specific host responses. Using primary cell cultures and the K18-hACE2 mouse, we investigated the replication, innate immune response, and pathology of closely related, clinical variants circulating during the first wave of the pandemic. Mathematical modeling of the lung viral replication of four clinical isolates showed a dichotomy between two B.1. isolates with significantly faster and slower infected cell clearance rates, respectively. While isolates induced several common immune host responses to infection, one B.1 isolate was unique in the promotion of eosinophil-associated proteins IL-5 and CCL11. Moreover, its mortality rate was significantly slower. Lung microscopic histopathology suggested further phenotypic divergence among the five isolates showing three distinct sets of phenotypes: (i) consolidation, alveolar hemorrhage, and inflammation, (ii) interstitial inflammation/septal thickening and peribronchiolar/perivascular lymphoid cells, and (iii) consolidation, alveolar involvement, and endothelial hypertrophy/margination. Together these findings show divergence in the phenotypic outcomes of these clinical isolates and reveal the potential importance of nonsynonymous mutations in nsp2 and ORF8.
37112648 | In Silico Analysis of SARS-CoV-2 Spike Proteins of Different Field Variants. Coronaviruses belong to the group of RNA family of viruses that trigger diseases in birds, humans, and mammals, which can cause respiratory tract infections. The COVID-19 pandemic has badly affected every part of the world. Our study aimed to explore the genome of SARS-CoV-2, followed by in silico analysis of its proteins. Different nucleotide and protein variants of SARS-CoV-2 were retrieved from NCBI. Contigs and consensus sequences were developed to identify these variants using SnapGene. Data of the variants that significantly differed from each other was run through Predict Protein software to understand the changes produced in the protein structure. The SOPMA web server was used to predict the secondary structure of the proteins. Tertiary structure details of the selected proteins were analyzed using the web server SWISS-MODEL. Sequencing results showed numerous single nucleotide polymorphisms in the surface glycoprotein, nucleocapsid, ORF1a, and ORF1ab polyprotein while the envelope, membrane, ORF3a, ORF6, ORF7a, ORF8, and ORF10 genes had no or few SNPs. Contigs were used to identify variations in the Alpha and Delta variants of SARS-CoV-2 with the reference strain (Wuhan). Some of the secondary structures of the SARS-CoV-2 proteins were predicted by using Sopma software and were further compared with reference strains of SARS-CoV-2 (Wuhan) proteins. The tertiary structure details of only spike proteins were analyzed through the SWISS-MODEL and Ramachandran plots. Through the Swiss-model, a comparison of the tertiary structure model of the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein of the Alpha and Delta variants was made with the reference strain (Wuhan). Alpha and Delta variants of the SARS-CoV-2 isolates submitted in GISAID from Pakistan with changes in structural and nonstructural proteins were compared with the reference strain, and 3D structure mapping of the spike glycoprotein and mutations in the amino acids were seen. The surprisingly increased rate of SARS-CoV-2 transmission has forced numerous countries to impose a total lockdown due to an unusual occurrence. In this research, we employed in silico computational tools to analyze the SARS-CoV-2 genomes worldwide to detect vital variations in structural proteins and dynamic changes in all SARS-CoV-2 proteins, mainly spike proteins, produced due to many mutations. Our analysis revealed substantial differences in the functionality, immunological, physicochemical, and structural variations in the SARS-CoV-2 isolates. However, the real impact of these SNPs can only be determined further by experiments. Our results can aid in vivo and in vitro experiments in the future.
37243278 | Quantitative Mutation Analysis of Genes and Proteins of Major SARS-CoV-2 Variants of Concern and Interest. Of various SARS-CoV-2 variants, some have drawn special concern or interest because of their heightened disease threat. The mutability of individual SARS-CoV-2 genes/proteins presumably varies. The present study quantified gene/protein mutations in 13 major SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern/interest, and analyzed viral protein antigenicity using bioinformatics. The results from 187 carefully perused genome clones showed significantly higher mean percent mutations in the spike, ORF8, nucleocapsid, and NSP6 than in other viral proteins. The ORF8 and spike proteins also tolerated higher maximal percent mutations. The omicron variant presented more percent mutations in the NSP6 and structural proteins, whereas the delta featured more in the ORF7a. Omicron subvariant BA.2 exhibited more mutations in ORF6, and omicron BA.4 had more in NSP1, ORF6, and ORF7b, relative to omicron BA.1. Delta subvariants AY.4 and AY.5 bore more mutations in ORF7b and ORF8 than delta B.1.617.2. Predicted antigen ratios of SARS-CoV-2 proteins significantly vary (range: 38-88%). To overcome SARS-CoV-2 immune evasion, the relatively conserved, potentially immunogenic NSP4, NSP13, NSP14, membrane, and ORF3a viral proteins may serve as more suitable targets for molecular vaccines or therapeutics than the mutation-prone NSP6, spike, ORF8, or nucleocapsid protein. Further investigation into distinct mutations of the variants/subvariants may help understand SARS-CoV-2 pathogenesis.
37265402 | SARS-CoV-2 ORF8 Mediates Signals in Macrophages and Monocytes through MyD88 Independently of the IL-17 Receptor. SARS-CoV-2 has caused an estimated 7 million deaths worldwide to date. A secreted SARS-CoV-2 accessory protein, known as open reading frame 8 (ORF8), elicits inflammatory pulmonary cytokine responses and is associated with disease severity in COVID-19 patients. Recent reports proposed that ORF8 mediates downstream signals in macrophages and monocytes through the IL-17 receptor complex (IL-17RA, IL-17RC). However, generally IL-17 signals are found to be restricted to the nonhematopoietic compartment, thought to be due to rate-limiting expression of IL-17RC. Accordingly, we revisited the capacity of IL-17 and ORF8 to induce cytokine gene expression in mouse and human macrophages and monocytes. In SARS-CoV-2-infected human and mouse lungs, IL17RC mRNA was undetectable in monocyte/macrophage populations. In cultured mouse and human monocytes and macrophages, ORF8 but not IL-17 led to elevated expression of target cytokines. ORF8-induced signaling was fully preserved in the presence of anti-IL-17RA/RC neutralizing Abs and in Il17ra-/- cells. ORF8 signaling was also operative in Il1r1-/- bone marrow-derived macrophages. However, the TLR/IL-1R family adaptor MyD88, which is dispensable for IL-17R signaling, was required for ORF8 activity yet MyD88 is not required for IL-17 signaling. Thus, we conclude that ORF8 transduces inflammatory signaling in monocytes and macrophages via MyD88 independently of the IL-17R.
37529092 | Development a novel multiepitope DNA vaccine against human SARS coronavirus-2: an immunoinformatic designing study. Human SARS coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) causes the current global COVID-19 pandemic. The production of an efficient vaccine against COVID-19 is under heavy investigation. In this study, we have designed a novel multiepitope DNA vaccine against SARS-CoV-2 using reverse vaccinology and DNA vaccine approaches. Applying these strategies led to reduce the time and costs of vaccine development and also improve the immune protective characteristics of the vaccine. For this purpose, epitopes of nucleocapsid, membrane glycoprotein, and ORF8 proteins of SARS-CoV-2 chose as targets for B and T-cell receptors. Accordingly, DNA sequences of selected epitopes have optimized for protein expression in the eukaryotic system. To this end, the Kozak and tissue plasminogen activator sequences were added into the epitope sequences for proper protein expression and secretion, respectively. Furthermore, interleukin-2 and beta-defensin 1 preproprotein sequences were incorporated to the designed DNA vaccine as an adjuvant. Modeling and refinement of fused protein composed of SARS-CoV-2 multiepitope antigens (fuspMA) have performed based on homology modeling of orthologous peptides, then constructed 3D model of fuspMA was more investigated during 50 ns of molecular dynamics simulation. Further bioinformatics predictions demonstrated that fuspMA is a stable protein with acceptable antigenic features and no allergenicity or toxicity characteristics. Finally, the affinity of fuspMA to the MHC I and II and TLRs molecules validated by the molecular docking procedure. In conclusion, it seems the designed multiepitope DNA vaccine could have a chance to be introduced as an efficient vaccine against COVID-19 after more in vivo evaluations.
37545510 | SARS-CoV-2 accessory proteins involvement in inflammatory and profibrotic processes through IL11 signaling. SARS-CoV-2, the cause of the COVID-19 pandemic, possesses eleven accessory proteins encoded in its genome. Their roles during infection are still not completely understood. In this study, transcriptomics analysis revealed that both WNT5A and IL11 were significantly up-regulated in A549 cells expressing individual accessory proteins ORF6, ORF8, ORF9b or ORF9c from SARS-CoV-2 (Wuhan-Hu-1 isolate). IL11 is a member of the IL6 family of cytokines. IL11 signaling-related genes were also differentially expressed. Bioinformatics analysis disclosed that both WNT5A and IL11 were involved in pulmonary fibrosis idiopathic disease and functional assays confirmed their association with profibrotic cell responses. Subsequently, data comparison with lung cell lines infected with SARS-CoV-2 or lung biopsies from patients with COVID-19, evidenced altered profibrotic gene expression that matched those obtained in this study. Our results show ORF6, ORF8, ORF9b and ORF9c involvement in inflammatory and profibrotic responses. Thus, these accessory proteins could be targeted by new therapies against COVID-19 disease.
37556478 | Polypharmacology guided drug repositioning approach for SARS-CoV2. Drug repurposing has emerged as an important strategy and it has a great potential in identifying therapeutic applications for COVID-19. An extensive virtual screening of 4193 FDA approved drugs has been carried out against 24 proteins of SARS-CoV2 (NSP1-10 and NSP12-16, envelope, membrane, nucleoprotein, spike, ORF3a, ORF6, ORF7a, ORF8, and ORF9b). The drugs were classified into top 10 and bottom 10 drugs based on the docking scores followed by the distribution of their therapeutic indications. As a result, the top 10 drugs were found to have therapeutic indications for cancer, pain, neurological disorders, and viral and bacterial diseases. As drug resistance is one of the major challenges in antiviral drug discovery, polypharmacology and network pharmacology approaches were employed in the study to identify drugs interacting with multiple targets and drugs such as dihydroergotamine, ergotamine, bisdequalinium chloride, midostaurin, temoporfin, tirilazad, and venetoclax were identified among the multi-targeting drugs. Further, a pathway analysis of the genes related to the multi-targeting drugs was carried which provides insight into the mechanism of drugs and identifying targetable genes and biological pathways involved in SARS-CoV2.
37623322 | SARS-CoV-2 ORF8 accessory protein is a virulence factor. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) encodes six accessory proteins (3a, 6, 7a, 7b, 8, and 9b) for which limited information is available on their role in pathogenesis. We showed that the deletion of open reading frames (ORFs) 6, 7a, or 7b individually did not significantly impact viral pathogenicity in humanized K18-hACE2 transgenic mice. In contrast, the deletion of ORF8 partially attenuated SARS-CoV-2, resulting in reduced lung pathology and 40% less mortality, indicating that ORF8 is a critical determinant of SARS-CoV-2 pathogenesis. Attenuation of SARS-CoV-2- 8 was not associated with a significant decrease in replication either in the lungs of mice or in organoid-derived human airway cells. An increase in the interferon signaling at early times post-infection (1 dpi) in the lungs of mice and a decrease in the pro-inflammatory and interferon response at late times post-infection, both in the lungs of mice (6 dpi) and in organoid-derived human airway cells [72 hours post-infection (hpi)], were observed. The early, but not prolonged, interferon response along with the lower inflammatory response could explain the partial attenuation of SARS-CoV- 8. The presence of ORF8 in SARS-CoV-2 was associated with an increase in the number of macrophages in the lungs of mice. In addition, the supernatant of SARS-CoV-2-WT (wild-type)-infected organoid-derived cells enhanced the activation of macrophages as compared to SARS-CoV-2- 8-infected cells. These results show that ORF8 is a virulence factor involved in inflammation that could be targeted in COVID-19 therapies. IMPORTANCE The relevance of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) ORF8 in the pathogenesis of COVID-19 is unclear. Virus natural isolates with deletions in ORF8 were associated with wild milder disease, suggesting that ORF8 might contribute to SARS-CoV-2 virulence. This manuscript shows that ORF8 is involved in inflammation and in the activation of macrophages in two experimental systems: humanized K18-hACE2 transgenic mice and organoid-derived human airway cells. These results identify ORF8 protein as a potential target for COVID-19 therapies.
37658381 | Genome analysis of SARS-CoV-2 isolates from a population reveals the rapid selective sweep of a haplotype carrying many pre-existing and new mutations. To understand the mechanism underlying the evolution of SARS-CoV-2 in a population, we sequenced 92 viral genomes from Assam, India. Analysis of these and database sequences revealed a complete selective sweep of a haplotype in Assam carrying 13 pre-existing variants, including a high leap in frequency of a variant on ORF8, which is involved in immune evasion. A comparative study between sequences of same lineage and similar time frames in and outside Assam showed that 10 of the 13 pre-existing variants had a frequency ranging from 96 to 99%, and the remaining 3 had a low frequency outside Assam. Using a phylogenetic approach to infer sequential occurrences of variants we found that the variant Phe120del on ORF8, which had a low frequency (1.75%) outside Assam, is at the base of the phylogenetic tree of variants and became totally fixed (100%) in Assam population. Based on this observation, we inferred that the variant on ORF8 had a selective advantage, so it carried the haplotype to reach the100% frequency. The haplotype also carried 32 pre-existing variants at a frequency from 1.00 to 80.00% outside Assam. Those of these variants that are more closely linked to the S-protein locus, which often carries advantageous mutations and is tightly linked to the ORF8 locus, retained higher frequencies, while the less tightly linked variants showed lower frequencies, likely due to recombination among co- circulating variants in Assam. The ratios of non-synonymous substitutions to synonymous substitutions suggested that some genes such as those coding for the S-protein and non-structural proteins underwent positive selection while others were subject to purifying selection during their evolution in Assam. Furthermore, we observed negative correlation of the Ct value of qRT-PCR of the patients with abundant ORF6 transcripts, suggesting that ORF6 can be used as a marker for estimating viral titer. In conclusion, our in-depth analysis of SARS-CoV-2 genomes in a regional population reveals the mechanism and dynamics of viral evolution.
38053255 | Phage Tail Fiber Protein as a Specific Probe for Recognition of Shiga Toxin-Producing Escherichia coli O91, O103, and O111. The ability to quickly identify specific serotypes of Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli (STEC) could facilitate the monitoring and control of STEC pathogens. In this study, we identified the receptors and receptor-binding proteins (RBPs) of three novel phages (pO91, pO103, and pO111) isolated from hospital wastewater. Recombinant versions of these RBPs (pO91-ORF43, pO103-ORF42, and pO111-ORF8) fused to a fluorescent reporter protein were then constructed. Both fluorescence microscopy and transmission electron microscopy showed that all three recombinant RBPs were bound to the bacterial surface. Indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was used to verify that each recombinant RBP bound specifically to E. coli O91, O103, or O111, but not to any of the 83 strains of E. coli with different O-antigens, nor to 10 other bacterial species that were tested. The recombinant RBPs adsorbed to their respective host bacteria within 10 min of incubation. The minimum concentration of bacteria required for detection by the recombinant RBPs was 33 colony-forming units (CFU)/mL (range: 3.3 x 10 to 3.3 x 108 CFU/mL). Furthermore, each recombinant RBP was also able to detect bacteria in lettuce, chicken breast meat, and infected mice, indicating that their usage will facilitate the detection of STEC and may help to reduce the spread of STEC-related infections and diseases.
38527762 | Oncolytic varicella-zoster virus engineered with ORF8 deletion and armed with drug-controllable interleukin-12. BACKGROUND: The varicella-zoster virus (VZV), belonging to the group of human alpha-herpesviruses, has yet to be developed as a platform for oncolytic virotherapy, despite indications from clinical case reports suggesting a potential association between VZV infection and cancer remission. METHODS: Here, we constructed oncolytic VZV candidates based on the vaccine strain vOka and the laboratory strain Ellen. These newly engineered viruses were subsequently assessed for their oncolytic properties in the human MeWo melanoma xenograft model and the mouse B16-F10-nectin1 melanoma syngeneic model. RESULTS: In the MeWo xenograft model, both vOka and Ellen exhibited potent antitumor efficacy. However, it was observed that introducing a hyperfusogenic mutation into glycoprotein B led to a reduction in VZV's effectiveness. Notably, the deletion of ORF8 (encodes viral deoxyuridine triphosphatase) attenuated the replication of VZV both in vitro and in vivo, but it did not compromise VZV's oncolytic potency. We further armed the VZV Ellen-DeltaORF8 vector with a tet-off controlled mouse single-chain IL12 (scIL12) gene cassette. This augmented virus was validated for its oncolytic activity and triggered systemic antitumor immune responses in the immunocompetent B16-F10-nectin1 model. CONCLUSIONS: These findings highlight the potential of using Ellen-DeltaORF8-tet-off-scIL12 as a novel VZV-based oncolytic virotherapy.
9698101 | Antigenic characterization of HIV-1 gp41 binding proteins. The envelope protein HIV-1 gp41 has been shown to exert various effects on human T-cells, B-cells and monocytes like inhibition of cell proliferation, modulation of MHC expression and cytokine production. In contrast to gpl20, where several receptor molecules have been identified, the receptor for gp41 is still unknown. Using a sepharose column, coupled with recombinant soluble gp41, (rsgp41; Env amino acids 539-684), five gp41-binding proteins of 37, 45, 50, 62 and 100 kDa had been isolated from lysates of the B-cell line Raji. Two mouse antiserums were generated against the proteins P45 and P62 and were tested against the binding specificity of both antiserums. In Western blot analysis the antiserums recognized two protein bands of 45 and 62 kDa in complete Raji cell lysates, as well as the purified proteins P45 and P62, respectively, but did not show any cross-reaction, indicating that the two proteins do not share any immunological epitopes. Besides, the polyclonal antiserums did not recognize the other gp41-binding proteins P37, P50 and P100. Using the P62 antiserum proteins of the same size as in Raji cell lysates were stained in the lysates of the monocytic cell line U937 and the T-cell line H9, demonstrating distribution of P62 in different blood cells. P45 seems not to be identical to HLA-C which had been shown to bind to gp41. These results indicate, that P45 and P62 are two separate gp41-binding proteins without homology to each other or to the other gp41-binding proteins.
20093094 | Expression of the HLA-C2-specific activating killer-cell Ig-like receptor KIR2DS1 on NK and T cells. Killer Ig-like receptors (KIRs) are MHC class I-specific receptors expressed by Natural Killer (NK) and T cell subsets. KIRs either inhibit (KIR-L) or activate (KIR-S) lymphocyte functions. Inhibitory KIR2DL1 and activating KIR2DS1 share ligand specificity for the HLA-C2 group, consistent with their almost identical extracytoplasmic domain. This homology hampered the distinction between KIR2DL1 and KIR2DS1. We report here the characterization of the KIR2DS1(+) subsets among primary human NK and T cells. Regardless of the host HLA-C genotype, around 10% of circulating NK cells expressed KIR2DS1 in absence of KIR2DL1. In HLA-C2 individuals, KIR2DS1 was not able to induce NK cell education (i.e., the acquisition of NK cell competence) nor to interfere with KIR2DL1-induced NK cell education. KIR2DS1 was also present on rare oligoclonal TCRalphabeta(+)CD8alpha(+) and TCRalphabeta(+)CD4(-)CD8(-) subsets. As KIR2DS1 has been associated with autoimmunity and hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, these results pave the way to dissect the function of KIR2DS1 in these clinical conditions.
32709981 | Polymorphism at rs9264942 is associated with HLA-C expression and inflammatory bowel disease in the Japanese. An expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) at rs9264942 was earlier associated with human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-C expression in Europeans. HLA-C has also been related to inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) risk in the Japanese. This study examined whether an eQTL SNP at rs9264942 could regulate HLA-C expression and whether four SNP haplotypes, including the eQTL SNP at rs9264942 and three SNPs at rs2270191, rs3132550, and rs6915986 of IBD risk carried in the HLA-C*12:02~B*52:01~DRB1*15:02 allele, were associated with IBD in the Japanese. HLA-C expression on CD3e+CD8a+ lymphocytes was significantly higher for the CC or CT genotype than for the TT genotype of rs9264942. The TACC haplotype of the four SNPs was associated with a strong susceptibility to ulcerative colitis (UC) but protection against Crohn's disease (CD) as well as with disease clinical outcome. While UC protectivity was significant but CD susceptibility was not for the CGTT haplotype, the significance of UC protectivity disappeared but CD susceptibility reached significance for the CGCT haplotype. In conclusion, our findings support that the eQTL SNP at rs9264942 regulates HLA-C expression in the Japanese and suggest that the four SNPs, which are in strong linkage disequilibrium, may be surrogate marker candidates of a particular HLA haplotype, HLA-C*12:02~B*52:01~DRB1*15:02, related to IBD susceptibility and disease outcome.
33101265 | Cytomegalovirus-Mediated T Cell Receptor Repertoire Perturbation Is Present in Early Life. Human cytomegalovirus (CMV) is a highly prevalent herpesvirus, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa, where it is endemic from infancy. The T cell response against CMV is important in keeping the virus in check, with CD8 T cells playing a major role in the control of CMV viraemia. Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) B*44:03-positive individuals raise a robust response against the NEGVKAAW (NW8) epitope, derived from the immediate-early-2 (IE-2) protein. We previously showed that the T cell receptor (TCR) repertoire raised against the NW8-HLA-B*44:03 complex was oligoclonal and characterised by superdominant clones, which were shared amongst unrelated individuals (i.e., \public\). Here, we address the question of how stable the CMV-specific TCR repertoire is over the course of infection, and whether substantial differences are evident in TCR repertoires in children, compared with adults. We present a longitudinal study of four HIV/CMV co-infected mother-child pairs, who in each case express HLA-B*44:03 and make responses to the NW8 epitope, and analyse their TCR repertoire over a period spanning more than 10 years. Using high-throughput sequencing, the paediatric CMV-specific repertoire was found to be highly diverse. In addition, paediatric repertoires were remarkably similar to adults, with public TCR responses being shared amongst children and adults alike. The CMV-specific repertoire in both adults and children displayed strong fluctuations in TCR clonality and repertoire architecture over time. Previously characterised superdominant clonotypes were readily identifiable in the children at high frequency, suggesting that the distortion of the CMV-specific repertoire is incurred as a direct result of CMV infection rather than a product of age-related \memory inflation.\ Early distortion of the TCR repertoire was particularly apparent in the case of the TCR-beta chain, where oligoclonality was low in children and positively correlated with age, a feature we did not observe for TCR-alpha. This discrepancy between TCR-alpha and -beta chain repertoire may reflect differential contribution to NW8 recognition. Altogether, the results of the present study provide insight into the formation of the TCR repertoire in early life and pave the way to better understanding of CD8 T cell responses to CMV at the molecular level.
33327018 | Frequencies of Genetic Polymorphisms of Clinically Relevant Gene-Drug Pairs in a German Psychiatric Inpatient Population. INTRODUCTION: Genetic variation is known to affect enzymatic activities allowing differentiating various metabolizer types (e. g., slow or rapid metabolizers), in particular CYP2C19 and CYP2D6. METHODS: PGx-testing was conducted in adult major depressive disorder inpatients admitted to the Vitos Klinik Eichberg between 11/2016 and 7/2017 (n=108, 57% female). We conducted a two-sided Z-Test (p=0.05) to analyze and compare frequencies of CYP2D6, CYP2C19, CYP3A4, CYP3A5 and CYP2C9 metabolizer groups with other European and psychiatric inpatient cohorts. The HLA-A and -B genes were also analyzed. RESULTS: Non-normal metabolizer status of CYP2D6 were present in 47%. More specifically, 35 % were intermediate, 7% poor and 4% ultra-rapid metabolizers. 68% were CYP2C19 non-normal metabolizers. 8% were ultra-rapid and 31% rapid metabolizers. Notably, only 13% were NM for CYP2C19 and NM for CYP2D6 (activity score of 1 or more). For CYP2C9 we found 16% to be intermediate metabolizers, 1.0% poor metabolizer. CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 genetic polymorphisms were present in 25% and 19% respectively. HLA-B TAG- SNPs for *15:01 was positive in 25 patients, showing the need for different Tag-SNPs in Caucasians. HLA-B *57:01 TAG-SNP was positive in 8% of the patients, HLA-A TAG-SNP for *31:01 in Caucasians was positive in 9%. Z-Test showed statistical significance for our results. DISCUSSION: Our results suggest that our psychiatric inpatients were enriched with genotypes consistent with non-normal drug metabolism compared to reference populations. We therefore conclude that pharmacogenetic testing should be implemented in clinical practice to guide drug therapy.
33421092 | Behcet disease, new insights in disease associations and manifestations: a next-generation sequencing study. Behcet disease is a multi-system disease associated with human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I polymorphism. High-resolution next-generation sequencing (NGS) with haplotype analysis has not been performed previously for this disease. Sixty Egyptian patients diagnosed according to the International Study Group (ISG) criteria for Behcet disease and 160 healthy geographic and ethnic-matched controls were genotyped for HLA class I loci (HLA-A, B, C). For HLA class II loci (DRB1, DRB3/4/5, DQA1, DQB1, DPA1, DPB1), 40 control samples were genotyped. High-resolution HLA genotyping was performed using NGS and the results were analyzed. Clinical manifestations were oral ulcers (100%), genital ulcers (100%), eye (55%) and neurological (28%) and vascular involvement (35%). HLA-B*51:08 [odds ratio (OR) = 19 75, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 6 5-79; P < 0 0001], HLA-B*15:03 (OR = 12 15, 95% CI = 3 7-50 7; P < 0 0001), HLA-C*16:02 (OR = 6 53, 95% CI = 3-14; P < 0 0001), HLA-A*68:02 (OR = 3 14, 95% CI = 1 1-8 9; P < 0 01) were found to be associated with Behcet disease, as were HLA-DRB1*13:01 and HLA-DQB1*06:03 (OR = 3 39, 95% CI = 0 9-18 9; P = 0 04 for both). By contrast, HLA-A*03:01 (OR = 0 13, 95% CI = 0-0 8; P = 0 01) and HLA-DPB1*17:01 were found to be protective (OR = 0 27, 95% CI = 0 06-1 03; P = 0 02). We identified strong linkage disequilibrium between HLA-B*51:08 and C*16:02 and A*02:01 in a haplotype associated with Behcet disease. HLA-B*51:08 was significantly associated with legal blindness (OR = 2 98, 95% CI = 1 06-8 3; P = 0 01). In Egyptian Behcet patients, HLA-B*51:08 is the most common susceptibility allele and holds poor prognosis for eye involvement.
33887202 | The CD94/NKG2A inhibitory receptor educates uterine NK cells to optimize pregnancy outcomes in humans and mice. The conserved CD94/NKG2A inhibitory receptor is expressed by nearly all human and ~50% of mouse uterine natural killer (uNK) cells. Binding human HLA-E and mouse Qa-1, NKG2A drives NK cell education, a process of unknown physiological importance influenced by HLA-B alleles. Here, we show that NKG2A genetic ablation in dams mated with wild-type males caused suboptimal maternal vascular responses in pregnancy, accompanied by perturbed placental gene expression, reduced fetal weight, greater rates of smaller fetuses with asymmetric growth, and abnormal brain development. These are features of the human syndrome pre-eclampsia. In a genome-wide association study of 7,219 pre-eclampsia cases, we found a 7% greater relative risk associated with the maternal HLA-B allele that does not favor NKG2A education. These results show that the maternal HLA-B HLA-E NKG2A pathway contributes to healthy pregnancy and may have repercussions on offspring health, thus establishing the physiological relevance for NK cell education. VIDEO ABSTRACT.
34853448 | An immunodominant NP105-113-B*07:02 cytotoxic T cell response controls viral replication and is associated with less severe COVID-19 disease. NP105-113-B*07:02-specific CD8+ T cell responses are considered among the most dominant in SARS-CoV-2-infected individuals. We found strong association of this response with mild disease. Analysis of NP105-113-B*07:02-specific T cell clones and single-cell sequencing were performed concurrently, with functional avidity and antiviral efficacy assessed using an in vitro SARS-CoV-2 infection system, and were correlated with T cell receptor usage, transcriptome signature and disease severity (acute n = 77, convalescent n = 52). We demonstrated a beneficial association of NP105-113-B*07:02-specific T cells in COVID-19 disease progression, linked with expansion of T cell precursors, high functional avidity and antiviral effector function. Broad immune memory pools were narrowed postinfection but NP105-113-B*07:02-specific T cells were maintained 6 months after infection with preserved antiviral efficacy to the SARS-CoV-2 Victoria strain, as well as Alpha, Beta, Gamma and Delta variants. Our data show that NP105-113-B*07:02-specific T cell responses associate with mild disease and high antiviral efficacy, pointing to inclusion for future vaccine design.
35170024 | Potential role of regulatory DNA variants in modifying the risk of severe cutaneous reactions induced by aromatic anti-seizure medications. OBJECTIVE: Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) are severe cutaneous adverse drug reactions. Antiseizure medications (ASMs) with aromatic ring structure, including carbamazepine, are among the most common culprits. Screening for human leukocyte antigen (HLA) allele HLA-B*15:02 is recommended prior to initiating treatment with carbamazepine in Asians, but this allele has low positive predictive value. METHODS: We performed whole genome sequencing and analyzed 6 199 696 common variants among 113 aromatic ASM-induced SJS/TEN cases and 84 tolerant controls of Han Chinese ethnicity. RESULTS: In the primary analysis, nine variants reached genome-wide significance (p < 5e-08), one in the carbamazepine subanalysis (85 cases vs. 77 controls) and a further eight identified in HLA-B*15:02-negative subanalysis (35 cases and 53 controls). Interaction analysis between each novel variant from the primary analysis found that five increased risk irrespective of HLA-B*15:02 status or zygosity. HLA-B*15:02-positive individuals were found to have reduced risk if they also carried a chromosome 12 variant, chr12.9426934 (heterozygotes: relative risk = .71, p = .001; homozygotes: relative risk = .23, p < .001). All significant variants lie within intronic or intergenic regions with poorly understood functional consequence. In silico functional analysis of suggestive variants (p < 5e-6) identified through the primary and subanalyses (stratified by HLA-B*15:02 status and drug exposure) suggests that genetic variation within regulatory DNA may contribute to risk indirectly by disrupting the regulation of pathology-related genes. The genes implicated were specific either to the primary analysis (CD9), HLA-B*15:02 carriers (DOCK10), noncarriers (ABCA1), carbamazepine exposure (HLA-E), or phenytoin exposure (CD24). SIGNIFICANCE: We identified variants that could explain why some carriers of HLA-B*15:02 tolerate treatment, and why some noncarriers develop ASM-induced SJS/TEN. Additionally, this analysis suggests that the mixing of HLA-B*15:02 carrier status in previous studies might have masked variants contributing to susceptibility, and that inheritance of risk for ASM-induced SJS/TEN is complex, likely involving multiple risk variants.
35254093 | Genetic Susceptibility to Enteric Fever in Experimentally Challenged Human Volunteers. Infections with Salmonella enterica serovars Typhi and Paratyphi A cause an estimated 14 million cases of enteric fever annually. Here, the controlled nature of challenge studies is exploited to identify genetic variants associated with enteric fever susceptibility. Human challenge participants were genotyped by Illumina OmniExpress-24 BeadChip array (n = 176) and/or transcriptionally profiled by RNA sequencing (n = 174). While the study was underpowered to detect any single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) significant at the whole-genome level, two SNPs within CAPN14 and MIATNB were identified with P < 10-5 for association with development of symptoms or bacteremia following oral S. Typhi or S. Paratyphi A challenge. Imputation of classical human leukocyte antigen (HLA) types from genomic and transcriptomic data identified HLA-B*27:05, previously associated with nontyphoidal Salmonella-induced reactive arthritis, as the HLA type most strongly associated with enteric fever susceptibility (P = 0.011). Gene sets relating to the unfolded protein response/heat shock and endoplasmic reticulum-associated protein degradation were overrepresented in HLA-B*27:05+ participants following challenge. Furthermore, intracellular replication of S. Typhi is higher in C1R cells transfected with HLA-B*27:05 (P = 0.02). These data suggest that activation of the unfolded protein response by HLA-B*27:05 misfolding may create an intracellular environment conducive to S. Typhi replication, increasing susceptibility to enteric fever.
35475667 | Impact of Micropolymorphism Outside the Peptide Binding Groove in the Clinically Relevant Allele HLA-C*14 on T Cell Responses in HIV-1 Infection. There is increasing evidence for the importance of human leukocyte antigen C (HLA-C)-restricted CD8+ T cells in HIV-1 control, but these responses are relatively poorly investigated. The number of HLA-C-restricted HIV-1 epitopes identified is much smaller than those of HLA-A-restricted or HLA-B-restricted ones. Here, we utilized a mass spectrometry-based approach to identify HIV-1 peptides presented by HLA-C*14:03 protective and HLA-C*14:02 nonprotective alleles. We identified 25 8- to 11-mer HLA-I-bound HIV-1 peptides from HIV-1-infected HLA-C*14:02+/14:03+ cells. Analysis of T cell responses to these peptides identified novel 6 T cell epitopes targeted in HIV-1-infected HLA-C*14:02+/14:03+ subjects. Analyses using HLA stabilization assays demonstrated that all 6 epitope peptides exhibited higher binding to and greater cell surface stabilization of HLA-C*14:02 than HLA-C*14:03. T cell response magnitudes were typically higher in HLA-C*14:02+ than HLA-C*14:03+ individuals, with responses to the Pol KM9 and Nef epitopes being significantly higher. The results show that HLA-C*14:02 can elicit stronger T cell responses to HIV-1 than HLA-C*14:03 and suggest that the single amino acid difference between these HLA-C14 subtypes at position 21, outside the peptide-binding groove, indirectly influences the stability of peptide-HLA-C*14 complexes and induction/expansion of HIV-specific T cells. Taken together with a previous finding that KIR2DL2+ NK cells recognized HLA-C*14:03+ HIV-1-infected cells more than HLA-C*14:02+ ones, the present study indicates that these HLA-C*14 subtypes differentially impact HIV-1 control by T cells and NK cells. IMPORTANCE Some human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I alleles are associated with good clinical outcomes in HIV-1 infection and are called protective HLA alleles. Identification of T cell epitopes restricted by protective HLA alleles can give important insight into virus-immune system interactions and inform design of immune-based prophylactic/therapeutic strategies. Although epitopes restricted by many protective HLA-A/B alleles have been identified, protective HLA-C alleles are relatively understudied. Here, we identified 6 novel T cell epitopes presented by both HLA-C*14:02 (no association with protection) and HLA-C*14:03 (protective) using a mass spectrometry-based immunopeptidome profiling approach. We found that these peptides bound to and stabilized HLA-C*14:02 better than HLA-C*14:03 and observed differences in induction/expansion of epitope-specific T cell responses in HIV-infected HLA-C*14:02+ versus HLA-C*14:03+ individuals. These results enhance understanding of how the microstructural difference at position 21 between these HLA-C*14 subtypes may influence cellular immune responses involved in viral control in HIV-1 infection.
35596615 | NKG2A-checkpoint inhibition and its blockade critically depends on peptides presented by its ligand HLA-E. NKG2A has emerged as a new immunotherapy target and its blockade with the novel immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) monalizumab can boost both NK cell and CD8+ T cell responses. NKG2A forms heterodimers with CD94 and binds to the human non-classical MHC class I molecule HLA-E. HLA-E forms complexes with a limited set of peptides mainly derived from the leader sequences of the classical MHC class I molecules (HLA-A, HLA-B and HLA-C) and the non-classical class I paralogue HLA-G, and it is well established that the interaction between CD94/NKG2x receptors and its ligand HLA-E is peptide-sensitive. Here, we have evaluated peptide dependence of NKG2A-mediated inhibition and the efficiency of interference by monalizumab in a transcriptional T cell reporter system. NKG2A inhibition was mediated by cell-expressed HLA-E molecules stably presenting disulfate-trapped peptide ligands. We show that different HLA-class I leader peptides mediate varying levels of inhibition. We have used NKG2A/NKG2C chimeric receptors to map the binding site of NKG2A and NKG2C blocking antibodies. Furthermore, we determined the functional EC50 values of blocking NKG2A antibodies and show that they greatly depend on the HLA-leader peptide presented by HLA-E. Monalizumab was less effective in augmenting NK cell-mediated killing of target cells displaying HLA-G peptide on HLA-E, than cells expressing HLA-E complexed with HLA-A, HLA-B and HLA-C peptides. Our results indicate that peptides displayed by HLA-E molecules on tumour cells might influence the effectivity of NKG2A-ICI therapy and potentially suggest novel approaches for patient stratification, for example, based on tumoral HLA-G levels.
35602060 | Endoplasmic Reticulum Aminopeptidase 1 Is Involved in Anti-viral Immune Response of Hepatitis B Virus by Trimming Hepatitis B Core Antigen to Generate 9-Mers Peptides. Endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase 1 (ERAP1) is a processing enzyme of antigenic peptides presented to major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I molecules. ERAP1-dependent trimming of epitope repertoire determines an efficacy of adoptive CD8+ T-cell responses in several viral diseases; however, its role in hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection remains unknown. Here, we show that the serum level of ERAP1 in patients with chronic hepatitis B (CHB) (n = 128) was significantly higher than that of healthy controls (n = 44) (8.78 +- 1.82 vs. 3.52 +- 1.61, p < 0.001). Furthermore, peripheral ERAP1 level is moderately correlated with HBV DNA level in patients with CHB (r = 0.731, p < 0.001). HBV-transfected HepG2.2.15 cells had substantially increased ERAP1 expression and secretion than the germline HepG2 cells (p < 0.001). The co-culture of ERAP1-specific inhibitor ERAP1-IN-1 pretreated HepG2.2.15 cells or ERAP1 knockdown HepG2.2.15 cells with CD8+ T cells led to 14-24% inhibition of the proliferation of CD8+ T cells. Finally, liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) test demonstrated that ERAP1-IN-1 blocks completely the production of a 9-mers peptide (30-38, LLDTASALY) derived from Hepatitis B core antigen (HBcAg). The predictive analysis by NetMHCpan-4.1 server showed that human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-C*04:01 is a strong binder for the 9-mers peptide in HepG2.2.15 cells. Taken together, our results demonstrated that ERAP1 trims HBcAg to produce 9-mers LLDTASALY peptides for binding onto HLA-C*04:01 in HepG2.2.15 cells, facilitating the potential activation of CD8+ T cells.
35759748 | Expression of HLA and Autoimmune Pathway Genes in Liver Biopsies of Young Subjects With Autoimmune Hepatitis Type 1. OBJECTIVES: To test the hypothesis that autoimmune hepatitis (AIH type I) in young subjects is due to genetic differences in proinflammatory genes responding to viral triggers in patients and controls. METHODS: Intrahepatic gene expression was compared between AIH type I (n = 24, age 9-30 years) patients (hereafter referred to as the AIH group) and controls (n = 21, age 4-25 years). RNA sequencing was performed on complementary DNA (cDNA) libraries made from total RNA extracted from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) liver biopsy samples. Gene expression levels were quantified, and differentially expressed genes were functionally analyzed. Pathway analysis was performed using the databases Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) and PANTHER. The remaining sequences were mapped to the RefSeq complete set of viral genomes. RESULTS: Differential gene analysis identified 181 genes that were significantly differentially expressed (136 upregulated in the AIH group). Autoimmune pathway genes such as CD19 and CD20 which are important in B cell regulation and maturation as well as, CD8 and LY9 , which are T-cell related, were upregulated in our AIH group. Genes implicated in AIH pathogenesis including CXCL10 , which is thought to be associated with AIH severity and progression, complement genes ( C1QA, C1QB , and C1QC ), and human leucocyte antigen ( HLA ) genes ( HLA-DRB1, HLA-DRA, HLA-B , and HLA-C ) were upregulated in samples from the AIH group. Specific viral etiologies were not found. CONCLUSIONS: Unbiased next-generation sequencing and differential gene expression analysis of the AIH group has not only added support for the role of B cells in the pathogenesis and treatment of AIH but also has introduced potential new therapeutic targets: CXCL10 (anti- CXCL10 ) and several complement system-related genes.
35911762 | Host KIR/HLA-C Genotypes Determine HIV-Mediated Changes of the NK Cell Repertoire and Are Associated With Vpu Sequence Variations Impacting Downmodulation of HLA-C. NK cells play a pivotal role in viral immunity, utilizing a large array of activating and inhibitory receptors to identify and eliminate virus-infected cells. Killer-cell immunoglobulin-like receptors (KIRs) represent a highly polymorphic receptor family, regulating NK cell activity and determining the ability to recognize target cells. Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I molecules serve as the primary ligand for KIRs. Herein, HLA-C stands out as being the dominant ligand for the majority of KIRs. Accumulating evidence indicated that interactions between HLA-C and its inhibitory KIR2DL receptors (KIR2DL1/L2/L3) can drive HIV-1-mediated immune evasion and thus may contribute to the intrinsic control of HIV-1 infection. Of particular interest in this context is the recent observation that HIV-1 is able to adapt to host HLA-C genotypes through Vpu-mediated downmodulation of HLA-C. However, our understanding of the complex interplay between KIR/HLA immunogenetics, NK cell-mediated immune pressure and HIV-1 immune escape is still limited. Therefore, we investigated the impact of specific KIR/HLA-C combinations on the NK cell receptor repertoire and HIV-1 Vpu protein sequence variations of 122 viremic, untreated HIV-1+ individuals. Compared to 60 HIV-1- controls, HIV-1 infection was associated with significant changes within the NK cell receptor repertoire, including reduced percentages of NK cells expressing NKG2A, CD8, and KIR2DS4. In contrast, the NKG2C+ and KIR3DL2+ NK cell sub-populations from HIV-1+ individuals was enlarged compared to HIV-1- controls. Stratification along KIR/HLA-C genotypes revealed a genotype-dependent expansion of KIR2DL1+ NK cells that was ultimately associated with increased binding affinities between KIR2DL1 and HLA-C allotypes. Lastly, our data hinted to a preferential selection of Vpu sequence variants that were associated with HLA-C downmodulation in individuals with high KIR2DL/HLA-C binding affinities. Altogether, our study provides evidence that HIV-1-associated changes in the KIR repertoire of NK cells are to some extent predetermined by host KIR2DL/HLA-C genotypes. Furthermore, analysis of Vpu sequence polymorphisms indicates that differential KIR2DL/HLA-C binding affinities may serve as an additional mechanism how host genetics impact immune evasion by HIV-1.
36006472 | [History of reactive arthritis. Historical milestones and future]. The introduction of the term reactive arthritis (ReA) for the joint inflammation observed after infection with Yersinia enterocolitica, in which \a causative pathogen cannot be isolated from the synovial fluid\, and the association with the HLA-B27 were the historical milestones for a new classification and assignment to the spondylarthritides (SpA). The division into postinfectious and reactive arthritis proposed in 1976 was put into perspective in the 1990s because of investigations with the newly available molecular biological method of the polymerase chain reaction. Microbial products could be identified from joint samples of patients with ReA. Therefore, it was proposed to abandon the distinction between the two groups of diseases and to prefer the term ReA for both. This created a terminological and nosological issue. On the one hand, there are generally accepted classification and diagnostic criteria for the classical HLA-B27-associated ReA that are assigned to SpA. On the other hand, an increasing number of bacterial pathogens, viruses, amoebas, helminths as well as antiviral and antibacterial vaccinations are described as triggers of arthritis, which have been published under the term ReA. Since the beginning of the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic, cases of acute post-COVID-19 arthritis have been described, which were also classified as ReA because of comparable clinical features.
36122410 | Immune Phenotypes and Target Antigens of Clonally Expanded Bone Marrow T Cells in Treatment-Naive Multiple Myeloma. Multiple myeloma is a hematologic malignancy of monoclonal plasma cells that accumulate in the bone marrow. Despite their clinical and pathophysiologic relevance, the roles of bone marrow-infiltrating T cells in treatment-naive patients are incompletely understood. We investigated whether clonally expanded T cells (i) were detectable in multiple myeloma bone marrow, (ii) showed characteristic immune phenotypes, and (iii) whether dominant clones recognized antigens selectively presented on multiple myeloma cells. Single-cell index sorting and T-cell receptor (TCR) alphabeta sequencing of bone marrow T cells from 13 treatment-naive patients showed dominant clonal expansion within CD8+ cytolytic effector compartments, and only a minority of expanded T-cell clones expressed the classic immune-checkpoint molecules PD-1, CTLA-4, or TIM-3. To identify their molecular targets, TCRs of 68 dominant bone marrow clones from five selected patients were reexpressed and incubated with multiple myeloma and non-multiple myeloma cells from corresponding patients. Only 1 of 68 TCRs recognized antigen presented on multiple myeloma cells. This TCR was HLA-C-restricted, self-peptide-specific and could be activated by multiple myeloma cells of multiple patients. The remaining dominant T-cell clones did not recognize multiple myeloma cells and were, in part, specific for antigens associated with chronic viral infections. In conclusion, we showed that dominant bone marrow T-cell clones in treatment-naive patients rarely recognize antigens presented on multiple myeloma cells and exhibit low expression of classic immune-checkpoint molecules. Our data provide experimental context for experiences from clinical immune-checkpoint inhibition trials and will inform future T cell-dependent therapeutic strategies.
36341392 | Intraocular human cytomegaloviruses of ocular diseases are distinct from those of viremia and are capable of escaping from innate and adaptive immunity by exploiting HLA-E-mediated peripheral and central tolerance. Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) infections develop into CMV diseases that result in various forms of manifestations in local organs. CMV-retinitis is a form of CMV disease that develops in immunocompromised hosts with CMV-viremia after viruses in the peripheral circulation have entered the eye. In the HCMV genome, extensive diversification of the UL40 gene has produced peptide sequences that modulate NK cell effector functions when loaded onto HLA-E and are subsequently recognized by the NKG2A and NKG2C receptors. Notably, some HCMV strains carry UL40 genes that encode peptide sequences identical to the signal peptide sequences of specific HLA-A and HLA-C allotypes, which enables these CMV strains to escape HLA-E-restricted CD8+T cell responses. Variations in UL40 sequences have been studied mainly in the peripheral blood of CMV-viremia cases. In this study, we sought to investigate how ocular CMV disease develops from CMV infections. CMV gene sequences were compared between the intraocular fluids and peripheral blood of 77 clinical cases. UL40 signal peptide sequences were more diverse, and multiple sequences were typically present in CMV-viremia blood compared to intraocular fluid. Significantly stronger NK cell suppression was induced by UL40-derived peptides from intraocular HCMV compared to those identified only in peripheral blood. HCMV present in intraocular fluids were limited to those carrying a UL40 peptide sequence corresponding to the leader peptide sequence of the host's HLA class I, while UL40-derived peptides from HCMV found only in the peripheral blood were disparate from any HLA class I allotype. Overall, our analyses of CMV-retinitis inferred that specific HCMV strains with UL40 signal sequences matching the host's HLA signal peptide sequences were those that crossed the blood-ocular barrier to enter the intraocular space. UL40 peptide repertoires were the same in the intraocular fluids of all ocular CMV diseases, regardless of host immune status, implying that virus type is likely to be a common determinant in ocular CMV disease development. We thus propose a mechanism for ocular CMV disease development, in which particular HCMV types in the blood exploit peripheral and central HLA-E-mediated tolerance mechanisms and, thus, escape the antivirus responses of both innate and adaptive immunity.
36828665 | UreB immunodominant epitope-specific CD8+ T-cell responses were beneficial in reducing gastric symptoms in Helicobacter pylori-infected individuals. BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Although Helicobacter pylori is recognized as an extracellular infection bacterium, it can lead to an increase in the number of CD8+ T cells after infection. At present, the characteristics of H. pylori antigen-specific CD8+ T cells and the epitope response have not been elucidated. This study was focused on putative protective antigen UreB to detect specific CD8+ T-cell responses in vitro and screen for predominant response epitopes. METHODS: The PBMCs collected from H. pylori-infected individuals were stimulated by UreB peptide pools in vitro to identify the immunodominant CD8+ T-cell epitopes. Furthermore, their HLA restriction characteristics were detected accordingly by NGS. Finally, the relationship between immunodominant responses and appearance of gastric symptoms after H. pylori infection was conducted. RESULTS: UreB-specific CD8+ T-cell responses were detected in H. pylori-infected individuals. Three of UreB dominant epitopes (A-2 (UreB443-451 : GVKPNMIIK), B-4 (UreB420-428 : SEYVGSVEV), and C-1 (UreB5-13 : SRKEYVSMY)) were firstly identified and mainly presented by HLA-A*1101, HLA-B*4001 and HLA-C*0702 alleles, respectively. C-1 responses were mostly occurred in H. pylori-infected subjects without gastric symptoms and may alleviate the degree of gastric inflammation. CONCLUSIONS: The UreB dominant epitope-specific CD8+ T-cell response was closely related to the gastric symptoms after H. pylori infection, and the C-1 (UreB5-13 ) dominant peptides may be protective epitopes.
37342325 | A review of the main genetic factors influencing the course of COVID-19 in Sardinia: the role of human leukocyte antigen-G. Introduction: A large number of risk and protective factors have been identified during the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic which may influence the outcome of COVID-19. Among these, recent studies have explored the role of HLA-G molecules and their immunomodulatory effects in COVID-19, but there are very few reports exploring the genetic basis of these manifestations. The present study aims to investigate how host genetic factors, including HLA-G gene polymorphisms and sHLA-G, can affect SARS-CoV-2 infection. Materials and Methods: We compared the immune-genetic and phenotypic characteristics between COVID-19 patients (n = 381) with varying degrees of severity of the disease and 420 healthy controls from Sardinia (Italy). Results: HLA-G locus analysis showed that the extended haplotype HLA-G*01:01:01:01/UTR-1 was more prevalent in both COVID-19 patients and controls. In particular, this extended haplotype was more common among patients with mild symptoms than those with severe symptoms [22.7% vs 15.7%, OR = 0.634 (95% CI 0.440 - 0.913); P = 0.016]. Furthermore, the most significant HLA-G 3'UTR polymorphism (rs371194629) shows that the HLA-G 3'UTR Del/Del genotype frequency decreases gradually from 27.6% in paucisymptomatic patients to 15.9% in patients with severe symptoms (X2 = 7.095, P = 0.029), reaching the lowest frequency (7.0%) in ICU patients (X2 = 11.257, P = 0.004). However, no significant differences were observed for the soluble HLA-G levels in patients and controls. Finally, we showed that SARS-CoV-2 infection in the Sardinian population is also influenced by other genetic factors such as beta-thalassemia trait (rs11549407C>T in the HBB gene), KIR2DS2/HLA-C C1+ group combination and the HLA-B*58:01, C*07:01, DRB1*03:01 haplotype which exert a protective effect [P = 0.005, P = 0.001 and P = 0.026 respectively]. Conversely, the Neanderthal LZTFL1 gene variant (rs35044562A>G) shows a detrimental consequence on the disease course [P = 0.001]. However, by using a logistic regression model, HLA-G 3'UTR Del/Del genotype was independent from the other significant variables [ORM = 0.4 (95% CI 0.2 - 0.7), PM = 6.5 x 10-4]. Conclusion: Our results reveal novel genetic variants which could potentially serve as biomarkers for disease prognosis and treatment, highlighting the importance of considering genetic factors in the management of COVID-19 patients.
37468623 | A common allele of HLA is associated with asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infection. Studies have demonstrated that at least 20% of individuals infected with SARS-CoV-2 remain asymptomatic1-4. Although most global efforts have focused on severe illness in COVID-19, examining asymptomatic infection provides a unique opportunity to consider early immunological features that promote rapid viral clearance. Here, postulating that variation in the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) loci may underly processes mediating asymptomatic infection, we enrolled 29,947 individuals, for whom high-resolution HLA genotyping data were available, in a smartphone-based study designed to track COVID-19 symptoms and outcomes. Our discovery cohort (n = 1,428) comprised unvaccinated individuals who reported a positive test result for SARS-CoV-2. We tested for association of five HLA loci with disease course and identified a strong association between HLA-B*15:01 and asymptomatic infection, observed in two independent cohorts. Suggesting that this genetic association is due to pre-existing T cell immunity, we show that T cells from pre-pandemic samples from individuals carrying HLA-B*15:01 were reactive to the immunodominant SARS-CoV-2 S-derived peptide NQKLIANQF. The majority of the reactive T cells displayed a memory phenotype, were highly polyfunctional and were cross-reactive to a peptide derived from seasonal coronaviruses. The crystal structure of HLA-B*15:01-peptide complexes demonstrates that the peptides NQKLIANQF and NQKLIANAF (from OC43-CoV and HKU1-CoV) share a similar ability to be stabilized and presented by HLA-B*15:01. Finally, we show that the structural similarity of the peptides underpins T cell cross-reactivity of high-affinity public T cell receptors, providing the molecular basis for HLA-B*15:01-mediated pre-existing immunity.
37491449 | Asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 linked to HLA-B*15:01. 
37505416 | Shared Pathogenicity Features and Sequences between EBV, SARS-CoV-2, and HLA Class I Molecule-binding Motifs with a Potential Role in Autoimmunity. Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) are extraordinary in their ability to activate autoimmunity as well as to induce diverse autoimmune diseases. Here we reviewed the current knowledge on their relation. Further, we suggested that molecular mimicry could be a possible common mechanism of autoimmunity induction in the susceptible individuals infected with SARS-CoV-2. Molecular mimicry between SARS-CoV-2 and human proteins, and EBV and human proteins, are present. Besides, relation of the pathogenicity associated with both coronavirus diseases and EBV supports the notion. As a proof-of-the-concept, we investigated 8mer sequences with shared 5mers of SARS-CoV-2, EBV, and human proteins, which were predicted as epitopes binding to the same human leukocyte antigen (HLA) supertype representatives. We identified significant number of human peptide sequences with predicted-affinities to the HLA-A*02:01 allele. Rest of the peptide sequences had predicted-affinities to the HLA-A*02:01, HLA-B*40:01, HLA-B*27:05, HLA-A*01:01, and HLA-B*39:01 alleles. Carriers of these serotypes can be under a higher risk of autoimmune response induction upon getting infected, through molecular mimicry-based mechanisms common to SARS-CoV-2 and EBV infections. We additionally reviewed established associations of the identified proteins with the EBV-related pathogenicity and with the autoimmune diseases.
37506179 | The impact on carbamazepine usage and cutaneous adverse reactions before and after the reimbursement of HLA-B*1502 genotyping in Taiwan, 2000-2017: A nationwide longitudinal study. OBJECTIVES: HLA-B*1502 allele is strongly associated with carbamazepine (CBZ)-induced Stevens-Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis (SJS/TEN) in Han Chinese population. This study investigated the impact of HLA-B*1502 screening on CBZ utilization and rates of severe cutaneous allergic reactions (SCARs) and SJS/TEN over time in Taiwan, where screening for HLA-B*1502 genotyping before prescribing CBZ was reimbursed in June 2010. METHODS: Using the Taiwan National Health Insurance Research Database, we analyzed 13,277,457 episodes of seeking treatment for epilepsy or neuralgia between 2000 and 2017. Episodes were categorized into quarters based on treatment time. Propensity score-based stabilized weighting (PSSW) ensured well-balanced covariates. The difference in 3-month SCARs and SJS/TEN rates between phase 2 (2011-2017) and phase 1 (2000-2009) was examined using a one-sample Z test. Pearson correlation coefficients assessed the association between screening rate, the number of CBZ users and non-users, and SCARs and SJS/TEN rates after HLA-B*1502 genotyping. RESULTS: CBZ prescriptions reduced from 7% (2000-2003) to 6% (2004-2010) and 4% (2011-2017). The screening rates of CBZ non-users and CBZ users increased from 0%, 0.5% in 2011 to 0.8%, 16% in 2017, respectively. After PSSW, the mean 3-month SCARs incidence rates (per 10,000 episodes) significantly decreased from phase 1 to phase 2 for CBZ users (6.91 vs. 3.09, p<.0001) and non-users (1.96 vs. 1.65, p<.0001). SJS/TEN incidence rates (per 10,000 episodes) significantly decreased from phase 1 to phase 2 for CBZ users (2.94 vs. 1.93, p<.0001) but not for non-users (0.71 vs. 0.74, p=0.1492). In phase 2, SCARs incidence rates were significantly and negatively correlated with the screening rate for both CBZ users (r=-0.38, p=0.0342) and non-users (r=-0.80, p<0.001). No significant correlation was found between SJS/TEN incidence rates and screening rates. SIGNIFICANCE: Recognizing HLA-B*1502 allele and avoiding CBZ therapy in HLA-B*1502-positive patients is critical for preventing CBZ-induced severe adverse events.
37507492 | Asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infections linked to HLA-B*15:01. 
37510253 | In Vitro Analysis of the Effect of SARS-CoV-2 Non-VOC and four Variants of Concern on MHC-Class-I Expression on Calu-3 and Caco-2 Cells. As the MHC-I-pathway is key to antigen presentation to cytotoxic T-cells and, therefore, recognition by the host adaptive immune system, we hypothesized that SARS-CoV-2 including its Variants of Concern (VOCs), influences MHC-I expression on epithelial cell surfaces as an immune evasion strategy. We conducted an in vitro time course experiment with the human airway epithelial cell line Calu-3 and the human colorectal adenocarcinoma cell line Caco-2. Cells were infected with SARS-CoV-2 strains non-VOC/B.1.1, Alpha/B.1.1.7, Beta/B.1.351, Gamma/P.1, and Delta/B.1.617.2. At 2, 24, 48 and 72 h post-infection we performed RT-qPCR to track viral replication. Simultaneously, we performed intracellular staining with a serum of a double-vaccinated healthy adult containing a high amount of spike protein antibody. In flow cytometry experiments, we differentiated between infected (spike protein positive) and bystander (spike protein negative) cells. To compare their HLA expression levels, cells were stained extracellularly with anti-HLA-A-IgG and anti-HLA-B,C-IgG. While HLA-A expression was stable on infected Calu-3 cells for all variants, it increased to different degrees on bystander cells in samples infected with VOCs Beta, Gamma, Delta, or non-VOC over the time course analyzed. In contrast, HLA-A levels were stable in bystander Calu-3 cells in samples infected with the Alpha variant. The upregulation of MHC-I on spike protein negative bystander cells in Calu-3 cell cultures infected with Beta, Gamma, Delta, and partly non-VOC might suggest that infected cells are still capable of secreting inflammatory cytokines like type-I interferons stimulating the MHC-I expression on bystander cells. In comparison, there was no distinct effect on HLA expression level on Caco-2 cells of any of the VOCs or non-VOC. Further investigations of the full range of immune evasion strategies of SARS-CoV-2 variants are warranted.
37549678 | HLA-B*15:01 allele and asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infection. 
37775115 | The landscape of MHC-presented phosphopeptides yields actionable shared tumor antigens for cancer immunotherapy across multiple HLA alleles. BACKGROUND: Certain phosphorylated peptides are differentially presented by major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules on cancer cells characterized by aberrant phosphorylation. Phosphopeptides presented in complex with the human leukocyte antigen HLA-A*02:01 provide a stability advantage over their non-phosphorylated counterparts. This stability is thought to contribute to enhanced immunogenicity. Whether tumor-associated phosphopeptides presented by other common alleles exhibit immunogenicity and structural characteristics similar to those presented by A*02:01 is unclear. Therefore, we determined the identity, structural features, and immunogenicity of phosphopeptides presented by the prevalent alleles HLA-A*03:01, HLA-A*11:01, HLA-C*07:01, and HLA-C*07:02. METHODS: We isolated peptide-MHC complexes by immunoprecipitation from 11 healthy and neoplastic tissue samples using mass spectrometry, and then combined the resulting data with public immunopeptidomics data sets to assemble a curated set of phosphopeptides presented by 96 samples spanning 20 distinct healthy and neoplastic tissue types. We determined the biochemical features of selected phosphopeptides by in vitro binding assays and in silico docking, and their immunogenicity by analyzing healthy donor T cells for phosphopeptide-specific multimer binding and cytokine production. RESULTS: We identified a subset of phosphopeptides presented by HLA-A*03:01, A*11:01, C*07:01 and C*07:02 on multiple tumor types, particularly lymphomas and leukemias, but not healthy tissues. These phosphopeptides are products of genes essential to lymphoma and leukemia survival. The presented phosphopeptides generally exhibited similar or worse binding to A*03:01 than their non-phosphorylated counterparts. HLA-C*07:01 generally presented phosphopeptides but not their unmodified counterparts. Phosphopeptide binding to HLA-C*07:01 was dependent on B-pocket interactions that were absent in HLA-C*07:02. While HLA-A*02:01 and HLA-A*11:01 phosphopeptide-specific T cells could be readily detected in an autologous setting even when the non-phosphorylated peptide was co-presented, HLA-A*03:01 or HLA-C*07:01 phosphopeptides were repeatedly non-immunogenic, requiring use of allogeneic T cells to induce phosphopeptide-specific T cells. CONCLUSIONS: Phosphopeptides presented by multiple alleles that are differentially expressed on tumors constitute tumor-specific antigens that could be targeted for cancer immunotherapy, but the immunogenicity of such phosphopeptides is not a general feature. In particular, phosphopeptides presented by HLA-A*02:01 and A*11:01 exhibit consistent immunogenicity, while phosphopeptides presented by HLA-A*03:01 and C*07:01, although appropriately presented, are not immunogenic. Thus, to address an expanded patient population, phosphopeptide-targeted immunotherapies should be wary of allele-specific differences.
37801125 | Reactive arthritis following COVID-19: clinical case presentation and literature review. Reactive arthritis (ReA) is a clinical condition typically triggered by extra-articular bacterial infections and often associated with the presence of HLA-B27. While ReA has traditionally been associated with gastrointestinal and genitourinary infections, its pathogenesis involves immune and inflammatory responses that lead to joint affections. The emergence of COVID-19, caused by SARS-CoV-2, has prompted studies of plausible associations of the virus with ReA. We present a case of ReA in a patient who survived COVID-19 and presented with joint affections. The patient, a 31-year-old man, presented with lower limb joints pain. SARS-CoV-2 was confirmed by PCR testing during COVID-19-associated pneumonia. Following a thorough examination and exclusion of all ReA-associated infections, a diagnosis of ReA after COVID-19 was confirmed. In addition, this article encompasses a study of similar clinical cases of ReA following COVID-19 reported worldwide.
38007772 | Single Cell Sequencing Analysis for Blood Tissue. Single-cell sequencing is a technique based on sequencing genomic, transcriptomic and epigenomic analysis at the level of individual cells. Compared with traditional sequencing techniques, it can study intercellular heterogeneity and provide in-depth information on cell distribution, cell types and cell function of a specific population. This paper used blood tissue samples to analyze single-cell sequencing. Cells were downscaled by principal component analysis (PCA) and used Leiden clustering to discover cell heterogeneity in the same cluster and annotated after screening marker genes. Finally, 13 marker genes MTRNR2L8, NKG7, FLNA, IL7R, CCR7, CD8B, MKI67, LGALS3, TYROBP, C0251_TotalSeqC, CD79A, HLA-C, CCL4, and MCM5 in the experimental samples were found by cellular enrichment, which are strongly associated with white stuffy syndrome, skin damage, giant cell virus infection and other diseases are closely linked. In the medical field, the experimental results can be used to study the molecular characteristics and functional differences of different cell types under physiological and pathological conditions, thus providing insight into the pathogenesis and treatment of diseases such as leukoaraiosis syndrome, skin damage, and cytomegalovirus infection.
38031143 | HLA-B27 did not protect against COVID-19 in patients with axial spondyloarthritis - data from the ReumaCov-Brasil Registry. BACKGROUND: Some studies have suggested the HLA-B27 gene may protect against some infections, as well as it could play a benefit role on the viral clearance, including hepatitis C and HIV. However, there is lack of SARS-CoV-2 pandemic data in spondyloarthritis (SpA) patients. AIM: To evaluate the impact of HLA-B27 gene positivity on the susceptibility and severity of COVID-19 and disease activity in axial SpA patients. METHODS: The ReumaCoV-Brasil is a multicenter, observational, prospective cohort designed to monitor immune-mediated rheumatic diseases patients during SARS-CoV-2 pandemic in Brazil. Axial SpA patients, according to the ASAS classification criteria (2009), and only those with known HLA-B27 status, were included in this ReumaCov-Brasil's subanalysis. After pairing them to sex and age, they were divided in two groups: with (cases) and without (control group) COVID-19 diagnosis. Other immunodeficiency diseases, past organ or bone marrow transplantation, neoplasms and current chemotherapy were excluded. Demographic data, managing of COVID-19 (diagnosis, treatment, and outcomes, including hospitalization, mechanical ventilation, and death), comorbidities, clinical details (disease activity and concomitant medication) were collected using the Research Electronic Data Capture (REDCap) database. Data are presented as descriptive analysis and multiple regression models, using SPSS program, version 20. P level was set as 5%. RESULTS: From May 24th, 2020 to Jan 24th, 2021, a total of 153 axial SpA patients were included, of whom 85 (55.5%) with COVID-19 and 68 (44.4%) without COVID-19. Most of them were men (N = 92; 60.1%) with mean age of 44.0 +- 11.1 years and long-term disease (11.7 +- 9.9 years). Regarding the HLA-B27 status, 112 (73.2%) patients tested positive. There were no significant statistical differences concerning social distancing, smoking, BMI (body mass index), waist circumference and comorbidities. Regarding biological DMARDs, 110 (71.8%) were on TNF inhibitors and 14 (9.15%) on IL-17 antagonists. Comparing those patients with and without COVID-19, the HLA-B27 positivity was not different between groups (n = 64, 75.3% vs. n = 48, 48%, respectively; p = 0.514). In addition, disease activity was similar before and after the infection. Interestingly, no new episodes of arthritis, enthesitis or extra-musculoskeletal manifestations were reported after the COVID-19. The mean time from the first symptoms to hospitalization was 7.1 +- 3.4 days, and although the number of hospitalization days was numerically higher in the B27 positive group, no statistically significant difference was observed (5.7 +- 4.11 for B27 negative patients and 13.5 +- 14.8 for B27 positive patients; p = 0.594). Only one HLA-B27 negative patient died. No significant difference was found regarding concomitant medications, including conventional or biologic DMARDs between the groups. CONCLUSIONS: No significant difference of COVID-19 frequency rate was observed in patients with axial SpA regarding the HLA-B27 positivity, suggesting a lack of protective effect with SARS-CoV-2 infection. In addition, the disease activity was similar before and after the infection. TRIAL REGISTRATION: This study was approved by the Brazilian Committee of Ethics in Human Research (CONEP), CAAE 30186820.2.1001.8807, and was registered at the Brazilian Registry of Clinical Trials - REBEC, RBR-33YTQC. All patients read and signed the informed consent form before inclusion.
38168184 | Lack of association between HLA and asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infection. Human genetic studies of critical COVID-19 pneumonia have revealed the essential role of type I interferon-dependent innate immunity to SARS-CoV-2 infection. Conversely, an association between the HLA-B*15:01 allele and asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infection in unvaccinated individuals was recently reported, suggesting a contribution of pre-existing T cell-dependent adaptive immunity. We report a lack of association of classical HLA alleles, including HLA-B*15:01, with pre-omicron asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infection in unvaccinated participants in a prospective population-based study in the US (191 asymptomatic vs. 945 symptomatic COVID-19 cases). Moreover, we found no such association in the international COVID Human Genetic Effort cohort (206 asymptomatic vs. 574 mild or moderate COVID-19 cases and 1,625 severe or critical COVID-19 cases). Finally, in the Human Challenge Characterisation study, the three HLA-B*15:01 individuals infected with SARS-CoV-2 developed symptoms. As with other acute primary infections, no classical HLA alleles favoring an asymptomatic course of SARS-CoV-2 infection were identified. These findings suggest that memory T-cell immunity to seasonal coronaviruses does not strongly influence the outcome of SARS-CoV-2 infection in unvaccinated individuals.
38495872 | Identification of immunological patterns characterizing immune-related psoriasis reactions in oncological patients in therapy with anti-PD-1 checkpoint inhibitors. Introduction: Immunotherapy with biologics targeting programmed cell death protein-1 (PD-1) is highly effective in the treatment of various malignancies. Nevertheless, it is frequently responsible for unexpected cutaneous manifestations, including psoriasis-like dermatitis. The pathogenesis of anti-PD-1-induced psoriasis has yet to be clarified, even though it is plausible that some innate and adaptive immunity processes are in common with canonical psoriasis. The genetic predisposition to psoriasis of patients could also be a contributing factor. Here, we investigated the immunological and genetic profiles of two patients with metastatic melanoma and one patient affected by lung cancer, who developed severe psoriasis after receiving anti-PD-1 nivolumab therapy. Methods: The immune patterns of the three patients were compared with those detectable in classical, chronic plaque-type psoriasis or paradoxical psoriasis induced by anti-TNF-alpha therapy, mostly sustained by adaptive and innate immunity processes, respectively. Therefore, immunohistochemistry and mRNA analyses of innate and adaptive immunity molecules were conducted on skin biopsy of patients. Genetic analysis of polymorphisms predisposing to psoriasis was carried out by NGS technology. Results: We found that anti-PD-1-induced psoriasis showed immunological features similar to chronic psoriasis, characterized by the presence of cellular players of adaptive immunity, with abundant CD3+, CD8+ T cells and CD11c+ dendritic cells infiltrating skin lesions, and producing IL-23, IL-6, TNF-alpha, IFN-gamma and IL-17. On the contrary, a lower number of innate immunity cells (BDCA2+ plasmacytoid dendritic cells, CD15+ neutrophils, CD117+ mast cells) and reduced IFN-alpha/beta, lymphotoxin (LT)-alpha/beta, were observed in anti-PD-1-induced psoriasis lesions, as compared with anti-TNF-alpha-induced paradoxical psoriasis. Importantly, the disintegrin and metalloprotease domain containing thrombospondin type 1 motif-like 5 (ADAMTSL5) psoriasis autoantigen was significantly upregulated in psoriasis lesions of anti-PD-1-treated patients, at levels comparable with chronic plaque-type psoriasis. Finally, NGS analysis revealed that all patients carried several allelic variants in psoriasis susceptibility genes, such as HLA-C, ERAP1 and other genes of the major psoriasis susceptibility PSORS1 locus. Discussion: Our study showed that adaptive immunity predominates over innate immunity in anti-PD-1-induced psoriasis lesions, consistently with the local ADAMTSL5 overexpression. The presence of numerous SNPs in psoriasis susceptibility genes of the three patients also suggested their strong predisposition to the disease.
38524140 | Multiple environmental antigens may trigger autoimmunity in psoriasis through T-cell receptor polyspecificity. Introduction: Psoriasis is a T-cell mediated autoimmune skin disease. HLA-C*06:02 is the main psoriasis-specific risk gene. Using a Valpha3S1/Vbeta13S1 T-cell receptor (TCR) from a lesional psoriatic CD8+ T-cell clone we had discovered that, as an underlying pathomechanism, HLA-C*06:02 mediates an autoimmune response against melanocytes in psoriasis, and we had identified an epitope from ADAMTS-like protein 5 (ADAMTSL5) as a melanocyte autoantigen. The conditions activating the psoriatic autoimmune response in genetically predisposed individuals throughout life remain incompletely understood. Here, we aimed to identify environmental antigens that might trigger autoimmunity in psoriasis because of TCR polyspecificity. Methods: We screened databases with the peptide recognition motif of the Valpha3S1/Vbeta13S1 TCR for environmental proteins containing peptides activating this TCR. We investigated the immunogenicity of these peptides for psoriasis patients and healthy controls by lymphocyte stimulation experiments and peptide-loaded HLA-C*06:02 tetramers. Results: We identified peptides from wheat, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, microbiota, tobacco, and pathogens that activated both the Valpha3S1/Vbeta13S1 TCR and CD8+ T cells from psoriasis patients. Using fluorescent HLA-C*06:02 tetramers loaded with ADAMTSL5 or wheat peptides, we find that the same CD8+ T cells may recognize both autoantigen and environmental antigens. A wheat-free diet could alleviate psoriasis in several patients. Discussion: Our results show that due to TCR polyspecificity, several environmental antigens corresponding to previously suspected psoriasis risk conditions converge in the reactivity of a pathogenic psoriatic TCR and might thus be able to stimulate the psoriatic autoimmune response against melanocytes. Avoiding the corresponding environmental risk factors could contribute to the management of psoriasis.
38535155 | Immunogenetic Background of Chronic Lymphoproliferative Disorders in Romanian Patients-Case Control Study. BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The implications of the genetic component in the initiation and development of chronic lymphoproliferative disorders have been the subject of intense research efforts. Some of the most important genes involved in the occurrence and evolution of these pathologies are the HLA genes. The aim of this study is to analyze, for the first time, possible associations between chronic lymphoproliferative diseases and certain HLA alleles in the Romanian population. MATERIALS AND METHODS: This study included 38 patients with chronic lymphoproliferative disorders, diagnosed between 2021 and 2022 at Fundeni Clinical Institute, Bucharest, Romania, and 50 healthy controls. HLA class I and class II genes (HLA-A/B/C, HLA-DQB1/DPB1/DRB1) were investigated by doing high resolution genotyping using sequence specific primers (SSP). RESULTS: Several HLA alleles were strongly associated with chronic lymphoproliferative disorders. The most important finding was that the HLA-C*02:02 (p = 0.002, OR = 1.101), and HLA-C*12:02 (p = 0.002, OR = 1.101) have a predisposing role in the development of chronic lymphoproliferative disorders. Moreover, we identified that HLA-A*11:01 (p = 0.01, OR = 0.16), HLA-B*35:02 (p = 0.037, OR = 0.94), HLA-B*81:01 (p = 0.037, OR = 0.94), HLA-C*07:02 (p = 0.036, OR = 0.34), HLA-DRB1*11:01 (p = 0.021, OR = 0.19), and HLA-DRB1*13:02 (p = 0.037, OR = 0.94), alleles have protective roles. CONCLUSIONS: Our study indicates that HLA-C*02:02 and HLA-C*12:02 are positively associated with chronic lymphoproliferative disorders for our Romanian patients while HLA-DRB1*11:01, HLA-DRB1*13:02, and HLA-B*35:02 alleles have a protective role against these diseases.
38568509 | Human Leukocyte Antigens and Sulfamethoxazole/Cotrimoxazole-Induced Severe Cutaneous Adverse Reactions: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis. Importance: Sulfamethoxazole (SMX) and cotrimoxazole (CTX), a fixed-dose combination of SMX and trimethoprim in a 5:1 ratio, are antibacterial sulfonamides commonly used for treating various diseases. A substantial prevalence of severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCARs) following the administration of these drugs has been reported. However, the association between human leukocyte antigen (HLA) genotypes and SMX/CTX-induced SCARs has remained unclear. Objective: To investigate the association between HLA genotypes and SMX/CTX-induced SCARs. Data sources: A comprehensive search was conducted in CENTRAL (Cochrane Library), MEDLINE, and Embase from inception to January 17, 2023. Study Selection: Case-control studies that recruited patients who had experienced SCARs following SMX or CTX were included, and HLA alleles were analyzed. Data Extraction and Synthesis: Two independent authors extracted data on study characteristics and outcome data. The Meta-analysis of Observational Studies in Epidemiology (MOOSE) reporting guideline and the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-analyses (PRISMA) reporting guidelines were followed. The Newcastle-Ottawa Scale for case-control studies was used to assess study quality. Odds ratios (ORs) were calculated using a random-effects model for meta-analysis. Main Outcomes and Measures: The prespecified outcome was the OR comparing SMX/CTX-induced SCARs with healthy or SMX/CTX-tolerant controls based on different HLA alleles. Results: Six studies involving 322 patients with SCAR were included, including 236 patients with Stevens-Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis, 86 with drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms, 8448 healthy controls, and 229 tolerant controls. Significant associations were found in HLA-A*11:01 (OR, 2.10; 95% CI, 1.11-4.00), HLA-B*13:01 (OR, 5.96; 95% CI, 1.58-22.56), HLA-B*15:02 (OR, 2.23; 95% CI, 1.20-4.14), HLA-B*38:02 (OR, 3.47; 95% CI, 1.42-8.48), and HLA-C*08:01 (OR, 2.63; 95% CI, 1.07-6.44) compared with tolerant controls. In the Stevens-Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis subgroup, significant associations were found in HLA-B*15:02 (OR, 3.01; 95% CI, 1.56-5.80) and HLA-B*38:02 (OR, 5.13; 95% CI, 1.96-13.47). In the drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms subgroup, significant associations were found in HLA-A*68:01 (OR, 12.86; 95% CI, 1.09-151.34), HLA-B*13:01 (OR, 23.09; 95% CI, 3.31-161.00), HLA-B*39:01 (OR, 4.56; 95% CI, 1.31-15.82). Conclusions and Relevance: The results of this systematic review and meta-analysis suggest that multiple HLA alleles (HLA-A*11:01, HLA-B*13:01, HLA-B*15:02, HLA-B*38:02, and HLA-C*0801) are associated with SMX/CTX-induced SCARs.
38570725 | Dutch Pharmacogenetics Working Group (DPWG) guideline for the gene-drug interaction of CYP2C9, HLA-A and HLA-B with anti-epileptic drugs. By developing evidence-based pharmacogenetics guidelines to optimize pharmacotherapy, the Dutch Pharmacogenetics Working Group (DPWG) aims to advance the implementation of pharmacogenetics (PGx). This guideline outlines the gene-drug interaction of CYP2C9 and HLA-B with phenytoin, HLA-A and HLA-B with carbamazepine and HLA-B with oxcarbazepine and lamotrigine. A systematic review was performed and pharmacotherapeutic recommendations were developed. For CYP2C9 intermediate and poor metabolisers, the DPWG recommends lowering the daily dose of phenytoin and adjust based on effect and serum concentration after 7-10 days. For HLA-B*15:02 carriers, the risk of severe cutaneous adverse events associated with phenytoin, carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, and lamotrigine is strongly increased. For carbamazepine, this risk is also increased in HLA-B*15:11 and HLA-A*31:01 carriers. For HLA-B*15:02, HLA-B*15:11 and HLA-A*31:01 positive patients, the DPWG recommends choosing an alternative anti-epileptic drug. If not possible, it is recommended to advise the patient to report any rash while using carbamazepine, lamotrigine, oxcarbazepine or phenytoin immediately. Carbamazepine should not be used in an HLA-B*15:02 positive patient. DPWG considers CYP2C9 genotyping before the start of phenytoin \essential\ for toxicity prevention. For patients with an ancestry in which the abovementioned HLA-alleles are prevalent, the DPWG considers HLA-B*15:02 genotyping before the start of carbamazepine, phenytoin, oxcarbazepine, and lamotrigine \beneficial\, as well as genotyping for HLA-B*15:11 and HLA-A*31:01 before initiating carbamazepine.
38575371 | Two novel HLA class I alleles: HLA-A*02:1148 and HLA-B*44:386. Identification of the novel HLA-A*02:1148 and HLA-B*44:386 alleles by next-generation sequencing.
38575661 | Novel genetic variants of HLA gene associated with Thai Behcet's disease (BD) patients using next generation sequencing technology. Behcet's disease (BD) manifests as an autoimmune disorder featuring recurrent ulcers and multi-organ involvement, influenced by genetic factors associated with both HLA and non-HLA genes, including TNF-alpha and ERAP1. The study investigated the susceptible alleles of both Class I and II molecules of the HLA gene in 56 Thai BD patients and 192 healthy controls through next-generation sequencing using a PacBio kit. The study assessed 56 BD patients, primarily females (58.9%), revealing diverse manifestations including ocular (41.1%), vascular (35.7%), skin (55.4%), CNS (5.4%), and GI system (10.7%) involvement. This study found associations between BD and HLA-A*26:01:01 (OR 3.285, 95% CI 1.135-9.504, P-value 0.028), HLA-B*39:01:01 (OR 6.176, 95% CI 1.428-26.712, P-value 0.015), HLA-B*51:01:01 (OR 3.033, 95% CI 1.135-8.103, P-value 0.027), HLA-B*51:01:02 (OR 6.176, 95% CI 1.428-26.712, P-value 0.015), HLA-C*14:02:01 (OR 3.485, 95% CI 1.339-9.065, P-value 0.01), HLA-DRB1*14:54:01 (OR 1.924, 95% CI 1.051-3.522, P-value 0.034), and HLA-DQB1*05:03:01 (OR 3.00, 95% CI 1.323-6.798, P-value 0.008). However, after Bonferroni correction none of these alleles were found to be associated with BD. In haplotype analysis, we found a strong linkage disequilibrium in HLA-B*51:01:01, HLA-C*14:02:01 (P-value 0.0, Pc-value 0.02). Regarding the phenotype, a significant association was found between HLA-DRB1*14:54:01 (OR 11.67, 95% CI 2.86-47.57, P-value 0.001) and BD with ocular involvement, apart from this, no distinct phenotype-HLA association was documented. In summary, our study identifies specific HLA associations in BD. Although limited by a small sample size, we acknowledge the need for further investigation into HLA relationships with CNS, GI, and neurological phenotypes in the Thai population.
38578246 | Correction to HLA-A*24:02 increase the risk of allopurinol-induced drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) in HLA-B*58:01 carriers in Korean population; A multicenter cross-sectional case-control study. 
38581695 | Prognostic impact of number of induction courses to attain complete remission in patients with acute myeloid leukemia transplanted with either a matched sibling or human leucocyte antigen 10/10 or 9/10 unrelated donor: An Acute Leukemia Working Party European Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation study. INTRODUCTION: For the majority of patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) an allogeneic stem cell transplant (SCT) in first complete remission (CR) is preferred. However, whether the number of courses required to achieve CR has a prognostic impact is unclear. It is unknown which factors remain important in patients requiring more than one course of induction to attain remission. METHODS: This Acute Leukaemia Working Party study from the European Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation identified adults who received an allograft in first CR from either a fully matched sibling or 10/10 or 9/10 human leucocyte antigen (HLA)-matched unrelated donor (HLA-A, HLA-B, HLA-C, HLA-DR, or HLA-DQ). Univariate and multivariate analyses were undertaken to identify the prognostic impact of one or two courses of induction to attain CR. RESULTS: A total of 4995 patients were included with 3839 (77%) patients attaining a CR following one course of induction chemotherapy (IND1), and 1116 patients requiring two courses (IND2) to attain CR. IND2 as compared to IND1 was a poor prognostic factor in a univariate analysis and remained so in a multivariate Cox model, resulting in an increased hazard ratio of relapse (1.38; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.16-1.64; p = .0003) and of death (1.27; 95% CI, 1.09-1.47; p = .002). Adverse prognostic factors in a multivariate analysis of the outcomes of patients requiring IND2 included age, FLT3-ITD, adverse cytogenetics, and performance status. Pretransplant measurable residual disease retained a prognostic impact regardless of IND1 or IND2. CONCLUSION: Initial response to chemotherapy as determined by number of courses to attain CR, retained prognostic relevance even following SCT in CR.
38638976 | Establishment and clinical application of the HLA genotype database of platelet-apheresis donors in Suzhou. The establishment of a platelet-apheresis donor database may provide a feasible solution to improve the efficacy of platelet transfusion in patients with immune platelet transfusion refractoriness (PTR). This study aimed to establish HLA genotype database in Suzhou, to provide HLA-I compatible platelets for PTR patients to ensure the safety and effectiveness of platelet transfusions. We used a polymerase chain reaction sequence-based typing (PCR-SBT) method to establish the database by performing high-resolution HLA-A, -B, and -C genotyping on 900 platelet-apheresis donors. HLA-I antibody was detected in patients using a Luminex device, and HLA-I gene matching was performed by an HLA-Matchmaker. We found that the highest frequency of the HLA-A allele was A*11:01 (17.06 %), followed by A*24:02 (14.67 %) and A*02:01 (13.61 %). The highest frequency of the HLA-B allele was B*46:01 (9.78 %), followed by B*40:01 (8.39 %) and B*13:02 (33 %). After the detection of platelet antibodies in 74 patients with immune PTR, we found 30 HLA-A antibodies and 48 HLA-B antibodies, and there were a variety of high frequency antibodies whose alleles were low in the donor database, such as HLA-A*68:02, and B*57:01. After avoiding donor-specific antibodies (DSA) matching, 102 of 209 platelet-compatible transfusions were effective, resulting in an effective rate of 48.8 %, which significantly improved the efficacy of platelet transfusion. The establishment of a platelet donor database is of great significance to improve the therapeutic effect of platelet transfusion in patients with hematologic disorder, and save blood resources, and it is also the premise and guarantee of precise platelet transfusion.
38645783 | Association of HLA-C*07:359 with HLA-A, -B, and -DRB1 alleles in Taiwanese. Objectives: It is thought that Taiwanese indigenous people were the \first people\ to populate Taiwan (Formosa) having been there for over 5000 years, preceding the Dutch colonization (from 1624 to 1662) and Spanish colonization (from 1626 to 1642). Taiwan's indigenes, represented by Austronesian language speakers, currently constitute approximately 2% of the total population in Taiwan. It is unknown whether they evolved from Taiwan's Paleolithic or Neolithic cultures, arrived during or after the Neolithic period from China or Southeast Asia or both. HLA studies on the Taiwanese indigenous population have found several intriguing genetic information showing one or two relatively frequently observed alleles and a small number of relatively less frequently observed ones. We report here a relatively frequently observed HLA-C*07:359 allele in the Taiwanese indigenous population, its linkage with HLA-B*39:01, and its probable associated HLA haplotype in two Taiwanese indigenous families. HLA-C*07:359 is a rarely observed allele in the HLA-C locus in the world populations. The objective of this study is to report the allele HLA-C*07:359 that is more frequently found in the Taiwanese population, especially in the Taiwanese indigenous people, to demonstrate that it has a close linkage with HLA-B*39:01 allele in the HLA-B locus and to show the plausible deduced HLA-A-C-B-DRB1-DQB1 haplotypes in association with HLA-C*07:359 in two families of Taiwanese indigenous unrelated individuals. Materials and Methods: The samples were peripheral whole blood, with dipotassium ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid and/or acid citrate dextrose anticoagulation additives. The sequence-based typing method was employed to confirm the low incidence of the allele of HLA-C*07:359 observed in Taiwanese. Polymerase chain reaction was carried out to amplify exons 2, 3, and 4 of the HLA-A,-B,-C,-DRB1 and-DQB1 loci with group-specific primer sets. Amplicons were sequenced using the BigDye Terminator Cycle Sequencing Ready Reaction Kit in both directions according to the manufacturer's protocol. Results: C*07:359 is an uncommon allele in the HLA-C locus in the world general population, according to our literature review. However, in this study, it is observed in the general Taiwanese population (frequency 0.41%), especially in the Taiwanese indigenous people at a frequency of 0.23%. In addition, we deduced two probable HLA haplotypes in association with C*07:359 in two indigenous families: A*24:02-C*07:359-B*39:01-DRB1*04:36 and A*24:02-C*07:359-B*39:01-DRB1*04:04. Conclusion: The two deduced HLA haplotypes associated with the uncommon C*07:359 allele that we report here are valuable for HLA tissue typing laboratories for reference purposes and for stem cell transplantation donor search coordinators to determine the likelihood of finding compatible donors in unrelated bone marrow donor registries for patients bearing the uncommon HLA allele. Since C*07:359 was found mostly in the Taiwanese indigenous population, we think the allele and its haplotypes we report here are important in population and anthropological studies.
8663414 | Other kinases can substitute for Jak2 in signal transduction by interferon-gamma. Each cytokine which utilizes the Jak-Stat signal transduction pathway activates a distinct combination of members of the Jak and Stat families. Thus, either the Jaks, the Stats, or both could contribute to the specificity of ligand action. With the use of chimeric receptors involving the interferon gamma receptor (IFN-gammaR) complex as a model system, we demonstrate that Jak2 activation is not an absolute requirement for IFN-gamma signaling. Other members of the Jak family can functionally substitute for Jak2. IFN-gamma can signal through the activation of Jak family members other than Jak2 as measured by Statlalpha homodimerization and major histocompatibility complex class I antigen expression. This indicates that Jaks are interchangeable and indiscriminative in the Jak-Stat signal transduction pathway. The necessity for the activation of one particular kinase during signaling can be overcome by recruiting another kinase to the receptor complex. The results may suggest that the Jaks do not contribute to the specificity of signal transduction in the Jak-Stat pathway to the same degree as Stats.
11309482 | Control of HIV-1 viremia and protection from AIDS are associated with HLA-Bw4 homozygosity. Certain HLA-B antigens have been associated with lack of progression to AIDS. HLA-B alleles can be divided into two mutually exclusive groups based on the expression of the molecular epitopes HLA-Bw4 and HLA-Bw6. Notably, in addition to its role in presenting viral peptides for immune recognition, the HLA-Bw4, but not HLA-Bw6, motif functions as a ligand for a natural killer cell inhibitory receptor (KIR). Here, we show that profound suppression of HIV-1 viremia is significantly associated with homozygosity for HLA-B alleles that share the HLA-Bw4 epitope. Furthermore, homozygosity for HLA-Bw4 alleles was also significantly associated with the ability to remain AIDS free and to maintain a normal CD4 T cell count in a second cohort of HIV-1-infected individuals with well defined dates of seroconversion. This association was independent of the presence of a mutation in CC chemokine receptor 5 (CCR5) associated with resistance to HIV-1 infection, and it was independent of the presence of HLA alleles that could potentially confound the results. We conclude that homozygosity for HLA-Bw4-bearing B alleles is associated with a significant advantage and that the HLA-Bw4 motif is important in AIDS pathogenesis.
19050382 | Association of HLA-C and HCP5 gene regions with the clinical course of HIV-1 infection. BACKGROUND: Recently, a genome-wide association analysis revealed single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the gene regions of HLA-C and HCP5 to be associated with viral load at set point and SNPs in the RNF39/ZNRD1 gene region to be associated with HIV-1 disease course. METHODS: We studied whether the association of these SNPs with viral load at set point could be replicated and whether these SNPs also associated with other clinical outcomes of HIV-1 infection in 335 HIV-1-infected homosexual participants from the Amsterdam Cohort Studies on HIV infection and AIDS (ACS). RESULTS: Significant associations between the minor allele variants of SNPs HLA-C rs9264942 and HCP5 rs2395029 and a lower viral load at set point could be replicated in the ACS. Moreover, these SNPs were significantly associated with delayed progression to AIDS, AIDS-related death, and a CD4 T-cell count below 400 cells/mul. Both minor allele variants were independent predictors of disease progression, also when a CCR5 Delta32 heterozygous genotype was included in the analysis. However, predictive value was not independent from viral load and CD4 T-cell count at set point. The SNPs in the RNF39/ZNRD1 gene region were associated with set point CD4 T-cell count but not with disease course in the ACS. CONCLUSION: The minor allele variants of SNPs in the HLA-C and HCP5 gene regions are also in the ACS associated with a lower viral load at set point and additionally with delayed HIV-1 disease progression. The association of these SNPs with the relatively early course of infection may help unravel their mode of action.
19181680 | Common variants in the region around Osterix are associated with bone mineral density and growth in childhood. Peak bone mass achieved in adolescence is a determinant of bone mass in later life. In order to identify genetic variants affecting bone mineral density (BMD), we performed a genome-wide association study of BMD and related traits in 1518 children from the Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children (ALSPAC). We compared results with a scan of 134 adults with high or low hip BMD. We identified associations with BMD in an area of chromosome 12 containing the Osterix (SP7) locus, a transcription factor responsible for regulating osteoblast differentiation (ALSPAC: P = 5.8 x 10(-4); Australia: P = 3.7 x 10(-4)). This region has previously shown evidence of association with adult hip and lumbar spine BMD in an Icelandic population, as well as nominal association in a UK population. A meta-analysis of these existing studies revealed strong association between SNPs in the Osterix region and adult lumbar spine BMD (P = 9.9 x 10(-11)). In light of these findings, we genotyped a further 3692 individuals from ALSPAC who had whole body BMD and confirmed the association in children as well (P = 5.4 x 10(-5)). Moreover, all SNPs were related to height in ALSPAC children, but not weight or body mass index, and when height was included as a covariate in the regression equation, the association with total body BMD was attenuated. We conclude that genetic variants in the region of Osterix are associated with BMD in children and adults probably through primary effects on growth.
19513699 | Effects of self-administered cocaine in adolescent and adult male rats on orbitofrontal cortex-related neurocognitive functioning. RATIONALE: Deficits in amygdala-related stimulus-reward learning are produced following 18 drug-free days of cocaine self-administration or its passive delivery in rats exposed during adulthood. No deficits in stimulus-reward learning are produced by cocaine exposure initiated during adolescence. OBJECTIVES: To determine if age of initiating cocaine exposure differentially affects behavioral functioning of an additional memory system linked to cocaine addiction, the orbitofrontal cortex. MATERIALS AND METHODS: A yoked-triad design (n = 8) was used. One rat controlled cocaine delivery and the other two passively received cocaine or saline. Rats controlling drug delivery (1.0 mg/kg) self-administered cocaine from either P37-P59 or P77-P99, and then underwent 18 drug-free days (P60-P77 vs. P100-P117). Rats next were tested for acquisition of odor-delayed win-shift behavior conducted over 15 sessions (P78-P96 vs. P118-P136). RESULTS: Cocaine self-administration did not differ between adults and adolescents. During the test phase of the odor-delayed win-shift task (relatively difficult task demands), rats from both drug-onset ages showed learning deficits. Rats with cocaine self-administration experience committed more errors and had longer session latencies compared to rats passively receiving saline or cocaine. Rats with adolescent-onset cocaine self-administration experience showed an additional learning deficit by requiring more sessions to reach criterion levels for task acquisition compared to same-aged passive saline controls or rats with adult-onset cocaine self-administration experience. Rats passively receiving cocaine did not differ from the passive saline control from either age group. CONCLUSIONS: Rats with adolescent-onset cocaine self-administration experience were more impaired in an orbitofrontal cortex-related learning task than rats with adult-onset cocaine self-administration experience.
21084992 | An additive effect of protective host genetic factors correlates with HIV nonprogression status. INTRODUCTION: In HIV-positive individuals, complex multifactorial mechanisms control viral infection. In addition to viral and immunological factors, the host genetic background also plays an important role. Our objective was to evaluate how various genetic factors associated with delayed AIDS onset. METHODS: Thirty HIV+ long-term nonprogressors (LTNPs) and 30 known progressors were analyzed. Host genes were analyzed in peripheral blood mononuclear cells DNA: CCR5 and HLA were polymerase chain reaction typed. HLA-C5', HCP5 polymorphisms, and CCL3L1 copy number were determined using real-time polymerase chain reaction. RESULTS: The CCL3L1high-copy-CCR5 deletion genetic risk groups was overrepresented in LTNPs. However, separately, neither CCL3L1 nor CCR5 were significantly associated with clinical outcome. HLA seemed as a strong nonprogression determinant, mainly HLA-B and the less-studied HLA-C. HLA-Cw0102 and HLA-C5' had an impact on LTNP phenotype along with HLA-B5701 and B2705. The presence of allele combinations like HLA- B*5701-Cw0602, HLA-B*2705-Cw0102, or HLA-B*3801-Cw1203 had the strongest effect in non-progression. As for HCP5, no independent effect was observed. The studied factors had additive effects, and although the number of patients was small, it seemed that carrying a high number of protective alleles associated with progression delay. CONCLUSIONS: We showed the additive load of protective host factors was predictive of nonprogression, and that HLA-associated factors were predominant in this global effect.
21860345 | Rising HIV-1 viral load set point at a population level coincides with a fading impact of host genetic factors on HIV-1 control. OBJECTIVE: Heterozygosity for a 32 base pair deletion in the CCR5 gene (CCR5wt/Delta32) and the minor alleles of a single-nucleotide polymorphism in the HCP5 gene (rs2395029) and in the HLA-C gene region (-35HLA-C; rs9264942) has been associated with a lower viral load set point. Recent studies have shown that over calendar time, viral load set point has significantly increased at a population level. Here we studied whether this increase coincides with a fading impact of above-mentioned host genetic markers on HIV-1 control. METHODS: We compared the association between viral load set point and HCP5 rs2395029, -35HLA-C rs9264942, and the CCR5wt/Delta32 genotype in HIV-1-infected individuals in the Netherlands who had seroconverted between 1982 and 2002 (pre-2003 seroconverters, n = 459) or between 2003 and 2009 (post-2003 seroconverters, n = 231). RESULTS: Viral load set point in post-2003 seroconverters was significantly higher than in pre-2003 seroconverters (P = 4.5 x 10(-5)). The minor alleles for HCP5 rs2395029, -35HLA-C rs9264942 and CCR5wt/Delta32 had a similar prevalence in both groups and were all individually associated with a significantly lower viral load set point in pre-2003 seroconverters. In post-2003 seroconverters, this association was no longer observed for HCP5 rs2395029 and CCR5wt/Delta32. The association between viral load set point and HCP5 rs2395029 had significantly changed over time, whereas the change in impact of the CCR5wt/Delta32 genotype over calendar time was not independent from the other markers under study. CONCLUSION: The increased viral load set point at a population level coincides with a lost impact of certain host genetic factors on HIV-1 control.
23217182 | Evidence for selection at HIV host susceptibility genes in a West Central African human population. BACKGROUND: HIV-1 derives from multiple independent transfers of simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) strains from chimpanzees to human populations. We hypothesized that human populations in west central Africa may have been exposed to SIV prior to the pandemic, and that previous outbreaks may have selected for genetic resistance to immunodeficiency viruses. To test this hypothesis, we examined the genomes of Biaka Western Pygmies, who historically resided in communities within the geographic range of the central African chimpanzee subspecies (Pan troglodytes troglodytes) that carries strains of SIV ancestral to HIV-1. RESULTS: SNP genotypes of the Biaka were compared to those of African human populations who historically resided outside the range of P. t. troglodytes, including the Mbuti Eastern Pygmies. Genomic regions showing signatures of selection were compared to the genomic locations of genes reported to be associated with HIV infection or pathogenesis. In the Biaka, a strong signal of selection was detected at CUL5, which codes for a component of the vif-mediated APOBEC3 degradation pathway. A CUL5 allele protective against AIDS progression was fixed in the Biaka. A signal of selection was detected at TRIM5, which codes for an HIV post-entry restriction factor. A protective mis-sense mutation in TRIM5 had the highest frequency in Biaka compared to other African populations, as did a protective allele for APOBEC3G, which codes for an anti-HIV-1 restriction factor. Alleles protective against HIV-1 for APOBEC3H, CXCR6 and HLA-C were at higher frequencies in the Biaka than in the Mbuti. Biaka genomes showed a strong signal of selection at TSG101, an inhibitor of HIV-1 viral budding. CONCLUSIONS: We found protective alleles or evidence for selection in the Biaka at a number of genes associated with HIV-1 infection or progression. Pygmies have also been reported to carry genotypes protective against HIV-1 for the genes CCR5 and CCL3L1. Our hypothesis that HIV-1 may have shaped the genomes of some human populations in West Central Africa appears to merit further investigation.
24383474 | Genome-wide study of percent emphysema on computed tomography in the general population. The Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis Lung/SNP Health Association Resource Study. RATIONALE: Pulmonary emphysema overlaps partially with spirometrically defined chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and is heritable, with moderately high familial clustering. OBJECTIVES: To complete a genome-wide association study (GWAS) for the percentage of emphysema-like lung on computed tomography in the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis (MESA) Lung/SNP Health Association Resource (SHARe) Study, a large, population-based cohort in the United States. METHODS: We determined percent emphysema and upper-lower lobe ratio in emphysema defined by lung regions less than -950 HU on cardiac scans. Genetic analyses were reported combined across four race/ethnic groups: non-Hispanic white (n = 2,587), African American (n = 2,510), Hispanic (n = 2,113), and Chinese (n = 704) and stratified by race and ethnicity. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Among 7,914 participants, we identified regions at genome-wide significance for percent emphysema in or near SNRPF (rs7957346; P = 2.2 x 10(-8)) and PPT2 (rs10947233; P = 3.2 x 10(-8)), both of which replicated in an additional 6,023 individuals of European ancestry. Both single-nucleotide polymorphisms were previously implicated as genes influencing lung function, and analyses including lung function revealed independent associations for percent emphysema. Among Hispanics, we identified a genetic locus for upper-lower lobe ratio near the alpha-mannosidase-related gene MAN2B1 (rs10411619; P = 1.1 x 10(-9); minor allele frequency [MAF], 4.4%). Among Chinese, we identified single-nucleotide polymorphisms associated with upper-lower lobe ratio near DHX15 (rs7698250; P = 1.8 x 10(-10); MAF, 2.7%) and MGAT5B (rs7221059; P = 2.7 x 10(-8); MAF, 2.6%), which acts on alpha-linked mannose. Among African Americans, a locus near a third alpha-mannosidase-related gene, MAN1C1 (rs12130495; P = 9.9 x 10(-6); MAF, 13.3%) was associated with percent emphysema. CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that some genes previously identified as influencing lung function are independently associated with emphysema rather than lung function, and that genes related to alpha-mannosidase may influence risk of emphysema.
30333224 | Cerdulatinib Pharmacodynamics and Relationships to Tumor Response Following Oral Dosing in Patients with Relapsed/Refractory B-cell Malignancies. PURPOSE: Preclinical studies suggest SYK and JAK contribute to tumor-intrinsic and microenvironment-derived survival signals. The pharmacodynamics of cerdulatinib, a dual SYK/JAK inhibitor, and associations with tumor response were investigated. PATIENTS AND METHODS: In a phase I dose-escalation study in adults with relapsed/refractory B-cell malignancies, cerdulatinib was administered orally to sequential dose-escalation cohorts using once-daily or twice-daily schedules. The study enrolled 8 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)/small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL), 13 with follicular lymphoma, 16 with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), and 6 with mantle cell lymphoma. Correlation of tumor response with pharmacodynamic markers was determined in patients with meaningful clinical responses. RESULTS: Following cerdulatinib administration, complete SYK and JAK pathway inhibition was achieved in whole blood of patients at tolerated exposures. Target inhibition correlated with serum cerdulatinib concentration, and IC50 values against B-cell antigen receptor (BCR), IL2, IL4, and IL6 signaling pathways were 0.27 to 1.11 mumol/L, depending on the phosphorylation event. Significant correlations were observed between SYK and JAK pathway inhibition and tumor response. Serum inflammation markers were reduced by cerdulatinib, and several significantly correlated with tumor response. Diminished expression of CD69 and CD86 (B-cell activation markers), CD5 (negative regulator of BCR signaling), and enhanced expression of CXCR4 were observed in 2 patients with CLL, consistent with BCR and IL4 suppression and loss of proliferative capacity. CONCLUSIONS: Cerdulatinib potently and selectively inhibited SYK/JAK signaling at tolerated exposures in patients with relapsed/refractory B-cell malignancies. The extent of target inhibition in whole-blood assays and suppression of inflammation correlated with tumor response. (ClinicalTrials.gov ID:NCT01994382).
30341486 | Berberine-Promoted CXCR4 Expression Accelerates Endothelial Repair Capacity of Early Endothelial Progenitor Cells in Persons with Prehypertension. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate whether the berberine treatment can improve endothelial repair capacity of early endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) from prehypertensive subjects through increasing CXC chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4) signaling. METHODS: EPCs were isolated from prehypertensive and healthy subjects and cultured. In vivo reendothelialization capacity of EPCs from prehypertensive patients with or without in vitro berberine treatment was examined in a nude mouse model of carotid artery injury. The protein expressions of CXCR4/Janus kinase-2 (JAK-2) signaling of in vitro EPCs were detected by Western blot analysis. RESULTS: CXCR4 signaling and alteration in migration and adhesion functions of EPCs were evaluated. Basal CXCR4 expression was significantly reduced in EPCs from prehypertensive patients compared with normal subjects (P<0.01). Also, the phosphorylation of JAK-2 of EPCs, a CXCR4 downstream signaling, was significantly decreased (P<0.01). Berberine promoted CXCR4/JAK-2 signaling expression of in vitro EPCs (P<0.01). Transplantation of EPCs pretreated with berberine markedly accelerated in vivo reendothelialization (P<0.01). The increased in vitro function and in vivo reendothelialization capacity of EPCs were inhibited by CXCR4 neutralizing antibody or pretreatment with JAK-2 inhibitor AG490, respectively (P<0.01). CONCLUSION: Berberinemodified EPCs via up-regulation of CXCR4 signaling contributes to enhanced endothelial repair capacity in prehypertension, indicating that berberine may be used as a novel potential primary prevention means against prehypertension-related atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease.
31415245 | Adoptive lymphocyte transfer to an HIV-infected progressor from an elite controller. BACKGROUNDHIV-infected patients with poor virologic control and multidrug-resistant virus have limited therapeutic options. The current study was undertaken to evaluate the safety, immunologic effects, and antiviral activity of peripheral lymphocytes transferred from an elite controller, whose immune system is able to control viral replication without antiretroviral medications, to an HLA-B*2705-matched progressor.METHODSApproximately 22 billion cells were collected from an elite controller by lymphapheresis and infused within 6 hours into a recipient with a preinfusion CD4+ T cell count of 10 cells/muL (1%) and HIV plasma viral load of 114,993 copies/mL.RESULTSDonor cells were cleared from the recipient's peripheral blood by day 8. A transient decrease in viral load to 58,421 (day 3) was followed by a rebound to 702,972 (day 6) before returning to baseline values by day 8. The decreased viral load was temporally associated with peak levels of donor T cells, including CD8+ T cells that had high levels of expression of Ki67, perforin, and granzyme B. Notably, recipient CD8+ T cells also showed increased expression of these markers, especially in HIV-specific tetramer-positive cells.CONCLUSIONThese results suggest that the adoptive transfer of lymphocytes from an HIV-infected elite controller to an HIV-infected patient with progressive disease may be able to perturb the immune system of the recipient in both positive and negative ways.TRIAL REGISTRATIONClinicalTrials.gov NCT00559416.FUNDINGIntramural Research Programs of the US NIH Clinical Center and the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID); the National Cancer Institute.
31423579 | JAK1/2 pathway inhibition suppresses M2 polarization and overcomes resistance of myeloma to lenalidomide by reducing TRIB1, MUC1, CD44, CXCL12, and CXCR4 expression. Monocytes polarize into pro-inflammatory macrophage-1 (M1) or alternative macrophage-2 (M2) states with distinct phenotypes and physiological functions. M2 cells promote tumour growth and metastasis whereas M1 macrophages show anti-tumour effects. We found that M2 cells were increased whereas M1 cells were decreased in bone marrow (BM) from multiple myeloma (MM) patients with progressive disease (PD) compared to those in complete remission (CR). Gene expression of Tribbles homolog 1 (TRIB1) protein kinase, an inducer of M2 polarization, was increased in BM from MM patients with PD compared to those in CR. Ruxolitinib (RUX) is an inhibitor of the Janus kinase family of protein tyrosine kinases (JAKs) and is effective for treating patients with myeloproliferative disorders. RUX markedly reduces both M2 polarization and TRIB1 gene expression in MM both in vitro and in vivo in human MM xenografts in severe combined immunodeficient mice. RUX also downregulates the expression of CXCL12, CXCR4, MUC1, and CD44 in MM cells and monocytes co-cultured with MM tumour cells; overexpression of these genes is associated with resistance of MM cells to the immunomodulatory agent lenalidomide. These results provide the rationale for evaluation of JAK inhibitors, including MM BM in combination with lenalidomide, for the treatment of MM patients.
31512724 | AMPK Subunits Harbor Largely Nonoverlapping Genetic Determinants for Body Fat Mass, Glucose Metabolism, and Cholesterol Metabolism. CONTEXT: Adenosine monophosphate (AMP)-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is a heterotrimeric enzyme and central regulator of cellular energy metabolism. The impact of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in all 7 AMPK subunit genes on adiposity, glucose metabolism, and lipid metabolism has not yet been systematically studied. OBJECTIVE: To analyze the associations of common SNPs in all AMPK genes, and of different scores thereof, with adiposity, insulin sensitivity, insulin secretion, blood glucose, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, total cholesterol, and triglycerides. STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: A cohort of 2789 nondiabetic participants from the Tubingen Family study of type 2 diabetes, metabolically characterized by oral glucose tolerance test and genotyped by genome-wide SNP array, was analyzed. RESULTS: We identified 6 largely nonoverlapping SNP sets across 4 AMPK genes (PRKAA1, PRKAA2, PRKAG2, PRKAG3) associated with adiposity, insulin sensitivity, insulin secretion, blood glucose, total/LDL cholesterol, or HDL cholesterol, respectively. A genetic score of body-fat-increasing alleles revealed per-allele effect sizes on body mass index (BMI) of +0.22 kg/m2 (P = 2.3 x 10-7), insulin sensitivity of -0.12 x 1019 L2/mol2 (P = 9.9 x 10-6) and 2-hour blood glucose of +0.02 mmol/L (P = 0.0048). Similar effects on blood glucose were observed with scores of insulin-sensitivity-reducing, insulin-secretion-reducing and glucose-raising alleles, respectively. A genetic cholesterol score increased total and LDL cholesterol by 1.17 mg/dL per allele (P = 0.0002 and P = 3.2 x 10-5, respectively), and a genetic HDL score decreased HDL cholesterol by 0.32 mg/dL per allele (P = 9.1 x 10-6). CONCLUSIONS: We describe largely nonoverlapping genetic determinants in AMPK genes for diabetes-/atherosclerosis-related traits, which reflect the metabolic pathways controlled by the enzyme. Formation of trait-specific genetic scores revealed additivity of allele effects, with body-fat-raising alleles reaching a marked effect size. (J Clin Endocrinol Metab XX: 0-0, 2019).
