1788521 | Efficacy of various pretreatment and therapy regimens against soman lethality in mice. The efficacy of a number of drug pretreatment combinations in protecting mice against lethal effects of soman was determined. Pyridostigmine peroral pretreatment followed by intramuscular postpoisoning therapy with atropine, obidoxime and/or trimedoxime, and diazepam protected mice against the lethal action of soman. Combination of pyridostigmine with trihexyphenidyl, benactyzine and bis-(4-hydroxyiminomethyl) pyridinium-methane dichloride improved prophylactic action even further.
5071791 | The influence of obidoxime on acetylcholinesterase activity in different parts of the mouse brain following isopropylmethyl phosphonofluoridate intoxication. 
5110203 | [Effect of atropine and trimedoxime on the acetylcholinesterase activity in some parts of the mouse brain]. 
5132126 | Influence of trimedoxime and atropine on acetylcholinesterase activity in some parts of the brain of mice poisoned by isopropylmethyl phosphonofluoridate. 
5289893 | [Therapeutic effectiveness of esterase reactivators in organophosphate poisoning and its limits]. 
9572990 | Activation of Stat-3 is involved in the induction of apoptosis after ligation of major histocompatibility complex class I molecules on human Jurkat T cells. Activation of Janus tyrosine kinases (Jak) and Signal transducers and activators of transcription (Stat) after ligation of major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I) was explored in Jurkat T cells. Cross-linking of MHC-I mediated tyrosine phosphorylation of Tyk2, but not Jak1, Jak2, and Jak3. In addition, the transcription factor Stat-3 was tyrosine phosphorylated in the cytoplasm and subsequently translocated to the cell nucleus. Data obtained by electrophoretic mobility shift assay suggested that the activated Stat-3 protein associates with the human serum-inducible element (hSIE) DNA-probe derived from the interferon-gamma activated site (GAS) in the c-fos promoter, a common DNA sequence for Stat protein binding. An association between hSIE and Stat-3 after MHC-I ligation was directly demonstrated by precipitating Stat-3 from nuclear extracts with biotinylated hSIE probe and avidin-coupled agarose. To investigate the function of the activated Stat-3, Jurkat T cells were transiently transfected with a Stat-3 isoform lacking the transactivating domain. This dominant-negative acting Stat-3 isoform significantly inhibited apoptosis induced by ligation of MHC-I. In conclusion, our data suggest the involvement of the Jak/Stat signal pathway in MHC-I-induced signal transduction in T cells.
10477719 | Reconstitution of early lymphoid proliferation and immune function in Jak3-deficient mice by interleukin-3. Expansion of early lymphoid progenitors requires interleukin-7 (IL-7), which functions through gamma(c)-mediated receptor activation of Jak3. Jak3 deficiency is a cause of severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) in humans and mice. IL-3 activates many of the same signaling pathways as IL-7, such as Stat5, but achieves this effect through the activation of Jak2 rather than Jak3. We hypothesized that expansion of an IL-7-responsive precursor population through a Jak3-independent pathway using IL-3 may stimulate early lymphoid progenitors and restore lymphopoiesis in Jak3(-/-) mice. Newborn Jak3(-/-) mice that were injected with IL-3 demonstrated thymic enlargement, a 2- to 20-fold increase in thymocyte numbers, and up to a 10-fold expansion in the number of CD4(+), CD8(+), and B220(+)/IgM(+) splenic lymphocytes, consistent with an effect upon an early lymphoid progenitor population. In contrast to control mice, IL-3-treated Jak3(-/-) mice challenged with the allogeneic major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I-bearing tumor P815 developed a specific CD8-dependent cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) response. IL-3-treated mice also mounted influenza-specific CTL responses and survival was prolonged. The beneficial effects of IL-3 are proposed to be produced by stimulation of a lymphoid precursor population of IL-7Ralpha(+)/IL-3Ralpha(+) cells that we identified in wild-type bone marrow. In vitro, we show that an early IL-7R(+) lymphoid progenitor population expresses IL-3R and proliferates in response to IL-3 and that IL-3 activates Stat5 comparably to IL-7. Clinically, IL-3 may therefore be useful treatment for X-linked and Jak3-deficient SCID patients who lack bone marrow donors.
10993288 | Impaired NFAT regulation and its role in a severe combined immunodeficiency. Severe Combined Immunodeficiency (SCID) is a primary immunodeficiency affecting T cells, B cells, or both. Whereas the clinical symptoms are uniformly dominated by recurrent infections, the molecular causes for SCID are very heterogeneous. Mutations in cell surface receptors, signal transduction molecules and transcription factors have been described, including the common gamma chain of the IL-2 (and IL-4, IL-7, IL-9 and IL-15) receptors, the kinase JAK-3, the epsilon and gamma chains of CD3, the protein tyrosine kinase ZAP-70, as well as CIITA and RFX5 involved in MHC class II gene expression. In this work we describe two infants with SCID whose T cells display a severe defect in T cell activation and cytokine transcription due to impaired activation of the transcription factor NFAT. We show that this defect in activation is not due to mutations in the NFAT proteins expressed in T cells or the phosphatase calcineurin which regulates the activation of NFAT. However, nuclear import of NFAT in response to T cell activation was severely compromised in the patients' T cells. A modest degree of nuclear translocation of NFAT was achieved in the patients' T cells when nuclear export was inhibited using lithium chloride. This low level of nuclear NFAT in the nucleus was not sufficient to compensate for the defect in cytokine production in the patients' T cells. However, elevated levels of extracellular calcium led to an increase in cytokine gene transcription by the SCID T cells, suggesting that the underlying genetic defect in the patients involved calcium influx or the initiation of calcium signalling.
14678034 | The novel JAK-3 inhibitor CP-690550 is a potent immunosuppressive agent in various murine models. JAK-3 has been shown to play a key role in cytokine signaling via gammac, e.g. IL-2, 4, 7, 9, 15, 21. The current study describes the immunosuppressive effects of CP-690550, a novel, small molecule inhibitor of JAK-3, in various murine models. In vitro, CP-690550 effectively inhibited a murine mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR) (IC50= 91 nm). Mice chronically dosed with CP-690550 (1.5-15 mg/kg/day) demonstrated dose- and time-dependent alterations in lymphocyte subsets when examined by flow cytometry. The most dramatic change observed was a 96% reduction in splenic NK1.1 + TCRbeta- cell numbers following 21 days of treatment. Delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) responses in sensitized mice were reduced in a dose-dependent manner following treatment with the JAK-3 inhibitor (1.87-30 mg/kg, s.c.). Extended survival of neonatal Balb/c hearts implanted into the ear pinna of MHC mismatched C3H/HEN mice was observed with CP-690550 monotherapy (10-30 mg/kg/day), but improved upon combination with cyclosporin (10 mg/kg/day). These data support the participation of JAK-3 in various lymphocyte homeostatic functions in mature mice. Furthermore, the ability of CP-690550 to extend cardiac allograft survival in murine models suggests it may afford a new treatment for prevention of transplant rejection.
15655551 | Tumour-derived exosomes and their role in cancer-associated T-cell signalling defects. Dendritic and lymphoid 'exosomes' regulate immune activation. Tumours release membranous material mimicking these 'exosomes,' resulting in deletion of reactive lymphocytes. Tumour-derived 'exosomes' have recently been explored as vaccines, without analysis of their immunologic consequences. This investigation examines the composition of tumour-derived 'exosomes' and their effects on T lymphocytes. Membranous materials were isolated from ascites of ovarian cancer patients (n=6) and Western immunoblotting was performed for markers associated with 'exosomes.' Using cultured T cells, 'exosomes' were evaluated for suppression of CD3-zeta and JAK 3 expressions and induction of apoptosis, measured by DNA fragmentation. 'Exosome' components mediating suppression of CD3-zeta were isolated by continuous eluting electrophoresis and examined by Western immunoblotting. 'Exosomes' were shown to be identical with previously characterised shed membrane vesicles by protein staining and TSG101 expression. 'Exosomes' expressed class I MHC, placental alkaline phosphatase, B23/nucleophosmin, and FasL. 'Exosomes' suppressed expression of T-cell activation signalling components, CD3-zeta and JAK 3 and induced apoptosis. CD3-zeta suppression was mediated by two components: 26 and 42 kDa. Only the 42 kDa component reacted with anti-FasL antibody. These results indicate that, while 'exosomes' express tumour antigens, leading to their proposed utility as tumour vaccines, they also can suppress T-cell signalling molecules and induce apoptosis.
16177063 | The Mannich base NC1153 promotes long-term allograft survival and spares the recipient from multiple toxicities. JAK3 is a cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase with limited tissue expression but is readily found in activated T cells. Patients lacking JAK3 are immune compromised, suggesting that JAK3 represents a therapeutic target for immunosuppression. Herein, we show that a Mannich base, NC1153, blocked IL-2-induced activation of JAK3 and its downstream substrates STAT5a/b more effectively than activation of the closely related prolactin-induced JAK2 or TNF-alpha-driven NF-kappaB. In addition, NC1153 failed to inhibit several other enzymes, including growth factor receptor tyrosine kinases, Src family members, and serine/threonine protein kinases. Although NC1153 inhibited proliferation of normal human T cells challenged with IL-2, IL-4, or IL-7, it did not block T cells void of JAK3. In vivo, a 14-day oral therapy with NC1153 significantly extended survival of MHC/non-MHC mismatched rat kidney allografts, whereas a 90-day therapy induced transplantation tolerance (>200 days). Although NC1153 acted synergistically with cyclosporin A (CsA) to prolong allograft survival, it was not nephrotoxic, myelotoxic, or lipotoxic and did not increase CsA-induced nephrotoxicity. In contrast to CsA, NC1153 was not metabolized by cytochrome P450 3A4. Thus, NC1153 prolongs allograft survival without several toxic effects associated with current immunosuppressive drugs.
16698439 | Intracellular expression of MICA in activated CD4 T lymphocytes and protection from NK cell-mediated MICA-dependent cytotoxicity. MICA is a stress-regulated molecule recognized by the NK cell-activating receptor NKG2D. Previously, we demonstrated that MICA is induced on activated T cells but regulation by mitogenic cytokines and its biological consequences remain unexplored. Here, we show that IL-2, IL-4, and IL-15 but not TNF-alpha or IFN-alpha induced MICA expression in T lymphocytes present in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), as assessed by Western blot. IL-2 effect involved Jak3/STAT5, p38 MAPK, p70(56) kinase, Lck/fyn kinases, and NF-kappaB. MICA expression was also observed in Th1 and Th2 cells. However, surface expression was not detected. T lymphocytes present in PBMCs and isolated CD4+ T lymphocytes stimulated with phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate and ionomycin also induced MICA expression as assessed by Western blot, but only low levels were expressed at the cell surface. Activated but not resting CD4+ T lymphocytes were lysed by IL-15- or IL-2-stimulated NK cells, and susceptibility was increased when HLA class I molecules were blocked. Also, cytokine-stimulated NK cells produced more IFN-gamma after culture with activated CD4+ T lymphocytes. However, the participation of MICA in these responses, if any, was marginal. Confocal microscopy revealed that MICA is retained mostly inside activated CD4+ T cells. Our results suggest that low surface expression of MICA on activated CD4+ T lymphocytes might be a safeguard mechanism to protect them from NK cells in an inflammatory, virus-infected, or tumor microenvironment, where NK and activated CD4+ T cells are recruited.
19139084 | Constitutive JAK3 activation induces lymphoproliferative syndromes in murine bone marrow transplantation models. The tyrosine kinase JAK3 plays a well-established role during normal lymphocyte development and is constitutively phosphorylated in several lymphoid malignancies. However, its contribution to lymphomagenesis remains elusive. In this study, we used the newly identified activating JAK3A572V mutation to elucidate the effect of constitutive JAK3 signaling on murine lymphopoiesis. In a bone marrow transplantation model, JAK3A572V induces an aggressive, fatal, and transplantable lymphoproliferative disorder characterized by the expansion of CD8(+)TCRalphabeta(+)CD44(+)CD122(+)Ly-6C(+) T cells that closely resemble an effector/memory T-cell subtype. Compared with wild-type counterparts, these cells show increased proliferative capacities in response to polyclonal stimulation, enhanced survival rates with elevated expression of Bcl-2, and increased production of interferon-gamma (IFNgamma) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha), correlating with enhanced cytotoxic abilities against allogeneic target cells. Of interest, the JAK3A572V disease is epidermotropic and produces intraepidermal microabscesses. Taken together, these clinical features are reminiscent of those observed in an uncommon but aggressive subset of CD8(+) human cutaneous T-cell lymphomas (CTCLs). However, we also observed a CD4(+) CTCL-like phenotype when cells are transplanted in an MHC-I-deficient background. These data demonstrate that constitutive JAK3 activation disrupts T-cell homeostasis and induces lymphoproliferative diseases in mice.
20391436 | Stress-activated dendritic cells interact with CD4+ T cells to elicit homeostatic memory. Evidence is presented that thermal or oxidizing stress-activated DC interact with CD4(+) T cells to induce and maintain a TCR-independent homeostatic memory circuit. Stress-activated DC expressed endogenous intra-cellular and cell surface HSP70. The NF-kappaB signalling pathway was activated and led to the expression of membrane-associated IL-15 molecules. These interacted with the IL-15 receptor complex on CD4(+) T cells, thus activating the Jak3 and STAT5 phosphorylation signalling pathway to induce CD40 ligand expression, T-cell proliferation and IFN-gamma production. CD40 ligand on CD4(+) T cells in turn re-activated CD40 molecules on DC, inducing DC maturation and IL-15 expression thereby maintaining the feedback circuit. The proliferating CD4(+) T cells were characterized as CD45RA(-) CD62L(+) central memory cells, which underwent homeostatic proliferation. The circuit is independent of antigen and MHC-class-II-TCR interaction as demonstrated by resistance to TCR inhibition by ZAP70 inhibitor or MHC-class II antibodies. These findings suggest that stress can activate a DC-CD4(+) T-cell interacting circuit, which may be responsible for maintaining a homeostatic antigen-independent memory.
20435017 | Expression, purification, and characterization of TYK-2 kinase domain, a member of the Janus kinase family. The Janus kinase family consists of four members: JAK-1, -2, -3 and TYK-2. While JAK-2 and JAK-3 have been well characterized biochemically, there is little data on TYK-2. Recent work suggests that TYK-2 may play a critical role in the development of a number of inflammatory processes. We have carried out a series of biochemical studies to better understand TYK-2 enzymology and its inhibition profile, in particular how the TYK-2 phosphorylated forms differ from each other and from the other JAK family members. We have expressed and purified milligram quantities of the TYK-2 kinase domain (KD) to high purity and developed a method to separate the non-, mono- (pY(1054)) and di-phosphorylated forms of the enzyme. Kinetic studies (k(cat(app))/K(m(app))) indicated that phosphorylation of the TYK-2-KD (pY(1054)) increased the catalytic efficiency 4.4-fold compared to its non-phosphorylated form, while further phosphorylation to generate the di-phosphorylated enzyme imparted no further increase in activity. These results are in contrast to those obtained with the JAK-2-KD and JAK-3-KD, where little or no increase in activity occurred upon mono-phosphorylation, while di-phosphorylation resulted in a 5.1-fold increase in activity for the JAK-2-KD. Moreover, ATP-competitive inhibitors demonstrated 10-30-fold shifts in potency (K(i(app))) as a result of the TYK-2-KD phosphorylation state, while the shifts for JAK-3-KD were only 2-3-fold and showed little or no change for JAK-2-KD. Thus, the phosphorlyation state imparted differential effects on both activity and inhibition within the JAK family of kinases.
20506481 | Selective functional inhibition of JAK-3 is sufficient for efficacy in collagen-induced arthritis in mice. OBJECTIVE: All gamma-chain cytokines signal through JAK-3 and JAK-1 acting in tandem. We undertook this study to determine whether the JAK-3 selective inhibitor WYE-151650 would be sufficient to disrupt cytokine signaling and to ameliorate autoimmune disease pathology without inhibiting other pathways mediated by JAK-1, JAK-2, and Tyk-2. METHODS: JAK-3 kinase selective compounds were characterized by kinase assay and JAK-3-dependent (interleukin-2 [IL-2]) and -independent (IL-6, granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor [GM-CSF]) cell-based assays measuring proliferation or STAT phosphorylation. In vivo, off-target signaling was measured by IL-22- and erythropoietin (EPO)-mediated models, while on-target signaling was measured by IL-2-mediated signaling. Efficacy of JAK-3 inhibitors was determined using delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) and collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) models in mice. RESULTS: In vitro, WYE-151650 potently suppressed IL-2-induced STAT-5 phosphorylation and cell proliferation, while exhibiting 10-29-fold less activity against JAK-3-independent IL-6- or GM-CSF-induced STAT phosphorylation. Ex vivo, WYE-151650 suppressed IL-2-induced STAT phosphorylation, but not IL-6-induced STAT phosphorylation, as measured in whole blood. In vivo, WYE-151650 inhibited JAK-3-mediated IL-2-induced interferon-gamma production and decreased the natural killer cell population in mice, while not affecting IL-22-induced serum amyloid A production or EPO-induced reticulocytosis. WYE-151650 was efficacious in mouse DTH and CIA models. CONCLUSION: In vitro, ex vivo, and in vivo assays demonstrate that WYE-151650 is efficacious in mouse CIA despite JAK-3 selectivity. These data question the need to broadly inhibit JAK-1-, JAK-2-, or Tyk-2-dependent cytokine pathways for efficacy.
20724918 | Development and characterization of a JAK-2-specific antibody suitable for immunohistochemical investigative studies. Janus kinases (JAKs) are tyrosine kinases called JAK-1, JAK-2, JAK-3, and Tyk-2, which have been shown to participate in the signaling pathways of several cytokines that are believed to play a key role in several autoimmune-mediated disorders including rheumatoid arthritis (RA). However, the availability of JAK-specific antibodies to be used in investigative efficacy studies in RA models is very limited. Therefore, in this study we developed and characterized a JAK-2-specific antibody that was used to evaluate its immunohistochemical expression in the joints of a rat adjuvant-induced arthritis (rAIA) RA preclinical model. An immunogen peptide sequence design was used to generate JAK-2-specific mouse, rat, and human polyclonal antibodies. JAK-2 plasmid cDNA was then generated and HEK293 transfected cell lines, gel electrophoresis, immunoblotting, and immunohistochemistry were used to further characterize the generated JAK-2 antibodies. We show that the generated JAK-2 antibody exhibits specificity and lacks cross-reactivity to JAK-1 and JAK-3. In addition, marked JAK-2 expression is shown in the rAIA in mixed inflammatory cells (macrophages and neutrophils), mast cells, and bone marrow elements. In conclusion, we show the development and characterization of a JAK-2-specific antibody that can be used in investigative and mechanistic studies such as preclinical efficacy models.
23592745 | Protective effect of wogonin on proinflammatory cytokine generation via Jak1/3-STAT1/3 pathway in lipopolysaccharide stimulated BV2 microglial cells. Wogonin is a flavonoid compound which exhibits antioxidation, anti-inflammation, neuroprotection, and antitumorgenesis functions. However, the mechanism of how wogonin reduces proinflammatory cytokine generation in activated microglia is unclear. At present, we found wogonin inhibited lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-/interferon-gamma (INF-gamma)-induced generation of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha). Wogonin exhibited parallel inhibition on LPS-/INF-gamma-induced expression of IL-6 and TNF-alpha messenger RNA at the same concentration range. LPS-/INF-gamma-induced phosphorylation of signal transduction and transcription 1 and 3 (STAT1/3) were also inhibited by wogonin. Although wogonin expressed only weak inhibitory effect on LPS-/INF-gamma-induced phosphorylation of Janus kinase-2 (Jak-2) and tyrosine kinase (Tyk)-2, it significantly attenuated the phosphorylation of Jak-1 and Jak-3. These results indicated that the blockade of IL-6 and TNF-alpha production by wogonin in LPS-/INF-gamma-stimulated BV2 microglial cells was attributed mainly to the interference in Jak-1/-3-STAT1/3 signaling pathway. 
23689514 | JAK3 deregulation by activating mutations confers invasive growth advantage in extranodal nasal-type natural killer cell lymphoma. Extranodal, nasal-type natural killer (NK)/T-cell lymphoma (NKCL) is an aggressive malignancy with poor prognosis in which, usually, signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) is constitutively activated and oncogenic. Here, we demonstrate that STAT3 activation mostly results from constitutive Janus kinase (JAK)3 phosphorylation on tyrosine 980, as observed in three of the four tested NKCL cell lines and in 20 of the 23 NKCL tumor samples under study. In one of the cell lines and in 4 of 19 (21%) NKCL primary tumor samples, constitutive JAK3 activation was related to an acquired mutation (A573V or V722I) in the JAK3 pseudokinase domain. We then show that constitutive activation of the JAK3/STAT3 pathway has a major role in NKCL cell growth and survival and in the invasive phenotype. Indeed, NKCL cell growth was slowed down in vitro by targeting JAK3 with chemical inhibitors or small-interfering RNAs. In a human NKCL xenograft mouse model, tumor growth was significantly delayed by the JAK3 inhibitor CP-690550. Altogether, the constitutive activation of JAK3, which can result from JAK3-activating mutations, is a frequent feature of NKCL that deserves to be tested as a therapeutic target. 
23797672 | The role of JAK-3 in regulating TLR-mediated inflammatory cytokine production in innate immune cells. The role of JAK-3 in TLR-mediated innate immune responses is poorly understood, although the suppressive function of JAK3 inhibition in adaptive immune response has been well studied. In this study, we found that JAK3 inhibition enhanced TLR-mediated immune responses by differentially regulating pro- and anti- inflammatory cytokine production in innate immune cells. Specifically, JAK3 inhibition by pharmacological inhibitors or specific small interfering RNA or JAK3 gene knockout resulted in an increase in TLR-mediated production of proinflammatory cytokines while concurrently decreasing the production of IL-10. Inhibition of JAK3 suppressed phosphorylation of PI3K downstream effectors including Akt, mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1, glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (GSK3beta), and CREB. Constitutive activation of Akt or inhibition of GSK3beta abrogated the capability of JAK3 inhibition to enhance proinflammatory cytokines and suppress IL-10 production. In contrast, inhibition of PI3K enhanced this regulatory ability of JAK3 in LPS-stimulated monocytes. At the transcriptional level, JAK3 knockout lead to the increased phosphorylation of STATs that could be attenuated by neutralization of de novo inflammatory cytokines. JAK3 inhibition exhibited a GSK3 activity-dependent ability to enhance phosphorylation levels and DNA binding of NF-kappaB p65. Moreover, JAK3 inhibition correlated with an increased CD4(+) T cell response. Additionally, higher neutrophil infiltration, IL-17 expression, and intestinal epithelium erosion were observed in JAK3 knockout mice. These findings demonstrate the negative regulatory function of JAK3 and elucidate the signaling pathway by which JAK3 differentially regulates TLR-mediated inflammatory cytokine production in innate immune cells. 
24416451 | Interleukin-21 is a critical regulator of CD4 and CD8 T cell survival during priming under Interleukin-2 deprivation conditions. Optimal T cell activation and expansion require binding of the common gamma-chain (gammac) cytokine Interleukin-2 (IL-2) to its cognate receptor that in turn engages a gammac/Janus tyrosine kinase (Jak)3 signaling pathway. Because of its restricted expression by antigen-activated T cells and its obligatory role in promoting their survival and proliferation, IL-2 has been considered as a selective therapeutic target for preventing T cell mediated diseases. However, in order to further explore IL-2 targeted therapy, it is critical to precisely understand its role during early events of T cell activation. In this study, we delineate the role of IL-2 and other gammac cytokines in promoting the survival of CD4 and CD8 T cells during early phases of priming. Under IL-2 inhibitory conditions (by neutralizing anti-IL-2 mAbs), the survival of activated CD8+ T cells was reduced, whereas CD4+ T cells remained much more resistant. These results correlated with reduced Bcl-2 expression, and mitochondrial membrane potential in CD8+ T cells in comparison to CD4+ T cells. However, using transwell co-culture assays we have found that CD4+ T cells could rescue the survival of CD8+ T cells even under IL-2 deprived conditions via secretion of soluble factors. A cytokine screen performed on CD8+ T cells cultured alone revealed that IL-21, another gammac cytokine, was capable of rescuing their survival under IL-2 deprivation. Indeed, blocking the IL-21 signaling pathway along with IL-2 neutralization resulted in significantly reduced survival of both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. Taken together, we have shown that under IL-2 deprivation conditions, IL-21 may act as the major survival factor promoting T cell immune responses. Thus, investigation of IL-2 targeted therapies may need to be revisited to consider blockade of the IL-21 signaling pathways as an adjunct to provide more effective control of T cell immune responses.
25443414 | Upregulation of MAPK/Erk and PI3K/Akt pathways in ulcerative colitis-associated colon cancer. An extracellular signal like a cytokine or chemokine, secreted in the inflammatory microenvironment can activate the mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway by binding to a cytokine receptor tyrosine kinase, which further activates tyrosine kinases such as Janus Kinase-3 (Jak-3). This signal is transferred from Jak-3 to the DNA in the nucleus of the cell by a chain of kinases, ultimately activating extracellular receptor kinase (Erk/MAPK). The latter phosphorylates c-myc, an oncogene, which alters the levels and activities of many transcription factors leading to cell survival, proliferation and invasion. The oncogenic PI3K pathway plays a similar role by activating c-myc, leading to cell survival and proliferation. The present study explores the role of ulcerative colitis in colon cancer by investigating the activities of tyrosine kinase activated MAPK pathway and various components of the PI3K pathway including PI3K, PTEN, PDK1, GSK3beta, Akt, mTOR, Wnt and beta-catenin. This was done by western blot and fluorescent immunohistochemical analysis of the above-mentioned proteins. Also, the morphological and histological investigation of the colonic samples from various animal groups revealed significant alterations as compared to the control in both inflammatory as well as carcinogenic conditions. These effects were reduced to a large extent by the co-administration of celecoxib, a second-generation non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID). 
26971464 | Alopecia areata: Animal models illuminate autoimmune pathogenesis and novel immunotherapeutic strategies. One of the most common human autoimmune diseases, alopecia areata (AA), is characterized by sudden, often persisting and psychologically devastating hair loss. Animal models have helped greatly to elucidate critical cellular and molecular immune pathways in AA. The two most prominent ones are inbred C3H/HeJ mice which develop an AA-like hair phenotype spontaneously or after experimental induction, and healthy human scalp skin xenotransplanted onto SCID mice, in which a phenocopy of human AA is induced by injecting IL-2-stimulated PBMCs enriched for CD56+/NKG2D+ cells intradermally. The current review critically examines the pros and cons of the available AA animal models and how they have shaped our understanding of AA pathobiology, and the development of new therapeutic strategies. AA is thought to arise when the hair follicle's (HF) natural immune privilege (IP) collapses, inducing ectopic MHC class I expression in the HF epithelium and autoantigen presentation to autoreactive CD8+ T cells. In common with other autoimmune diseases, upregulation of IFN-gamma and IL-15 is critically implicated in AA pathogenesis, as are NKG2D and its ligands, MICA, and ULBP3. The C3H/HeJ mouse model was used to identify key immune cell and molecular principles in murine AA, and proof-of-principle that Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitors are suitable agents for AA management in vivo, since both IFN-gamma and IL-15 signal via the JAK pathway. Instead, the humanized mouse model of AA has been used to demonstrate the previously hypothesized key role of CD8+ T cells and NKG2D+ cells in AA pathogenesis and to discover human-specific pharmacologic targets like the potassium channel Kv1.3, and to show that the PDE4 inhibitor, apremilast, inhibits AA development in human skin. As such, AA provides a model disease, in which to contemplate general challenges, opportunities, and limitations one faces when selecting appropriate animal models in preclinical research for human autoimmune diseases. 
27487096 | Role of Janus-Kinases in Major Depressive Disorder. BACKGROUND/AIMS: Major depressive disorder is a severe, common and often chronic disease with a significant mortality due to suicide. The pathogenesis of major depression is still unknown. It is assumed that a reduction of neurogenesis in the hippocampus plays an important role in the development of major depressive disorder. However, the mechanisms that control proliferation of neuronal stem cells in the hippocampus require definition. Here, we investigated the role of Janus-Kinase 3 (Jak-3) for stress-induced inhibition of neurogenesis and the induction of major depression symptoms in mice. METHODS: Stress was induced by the application of glucocorticosterone. Brain sections were stained with phospho-specific antibodies and analysed by confocal microscopy to measure phosphorylation of Jak-3 specifically in the hippocampus. Jak-3 inhibitors and the antidepressant amitriptyline were applied to counteract stress. The effects of the inhibitors were determined by a set of behavioural tests and analysis of Jak-3 phosphorylation in brain sections. Acid sphingomyelinase-deficient mice were employed to test whether Jak3 is downstream of ceramide. RESULTS: The data show that stress reduces neurogenesis, which is restored by simultaneous application of Jak-3 inhibitors. Inhibition of neurogenesis correlated with an anxious-depressive behaviour that was also normalized upon application of a Jak-3-inhibitor. Confocal microscopy data revealed that stress triggers a phosphorylation and thereby activation of Jak-3 in the hippocampus. Amitriptyline, a commonly used antidepressant that blocks the acid sphingomyelinase, or acid sphingomyelinase-deficiency reduced stress-induced phosphorylation of Jak-3. CONCLUSION: Our data show that Jak-3 is activated by stress at least partially via the acid sphingomyelinase and is involved in the mediation of stress-induced major depression.
27795451 | 3-Deoxysappanchalcone Promotes Proliferation of Human Hair Follicle Dermal Papilla Cells and Hair Growth in C57BL/6 Mice by Modulating WNT/beta-Catenin and STAT Signaling. 3-Deoxysappanchalcone (3-DSC) has been reported to possess anti-allergic, antiviral, anti-inflammatory and antioxidant activities. In the present study, we investigated the effects of 3-DSC on the proliferation of human hair follicle dermal papilla cells (HDPCs) and mouse hair growth in vivo. A real-time cell analyzer system, luciferase assay, Western blot and real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) were employed to measure the biochemical changes occurring in HDPCs in response to 3-DSC treatment. The effect of 3-DSC on hair growth in C57BL/6 mice was also examined. 3-DSC promoted the proliferation of HDPCs, similar to Tofacitinib, an inhibitor of janus-activated kinase (JAK). 3-DSC promoted phosphorylation of beta-catenin and transcriptional activation of the T-cell factor. In addition, 3-DSC potentiated interleukin-6 (IL-6)-induced phosphorylation and subsequent transactivation of signal transducer and activator of transcription-3 (STAT3), thereby increasing the expression of cyclin-dependent kinase-4 (Cdk4), fibroblast growth factor (FGF) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). On the contrary, 3-DSC attenuated STAT6 mRNA expression and IL4-induced STAT6 phosphorylation in HDPCs. Finally, we observed that topical application of 3-DSC promoted the anagen phase of hair growth in C57BL/6 mice. 3-DSC stimulates hair growth possibly by inducing proliferation of follicular dermal papilla cells via modulation of WNT/beta-catenin and STAT signaling.
27992687 | Brief Report: CD4+ T Cells From Patients With Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Respond Poorly to Exogenous Interleukin-2. OBJECTIVE: Imbalanced cytokine production by T cells characterizes both patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and lupus-prone mice and contributes to immune dysregulation. This study was undertaken to further investigate in detail the production of interleukin-2 (IL-2), interferon-gamma (IFNgamma), IL-4, and IL-17A by CD4+ cell subsets in healthy subjects and patients with SLE, and the signaling response of CD4+ T cells in response to exogenous IL-2. METHODS: Cytokine production by differentiated subsets of CD4+ T cells was assessed by intracellular staining following stimulation with phorbol myristate acetate and ionomycin and by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay after anti-CD3/anti-CD28 stimulation. The IL-2 signaling pathway was examined by assessing JAK-3/STAT-5 phosphorylation. Cell proliferation in response to IL-2 was examined by carboxyfluorescein succinimidyl ester dilution. RESULTS: Production of IL-2 was defective primarily among naive CD4+ T cells, whereas the production of IFNgamma, IL-4, and IL-17A was not significantly different between patients with SLE and healthy subjects. JAK-3/STAT-5 phosphorylation and proliferation of CD4+ T cells from SLE patients in response to exogenous IL-2 were impaired compared to cells from healthy subjects. CONCLUSION: These data suggest that altered IL-2 production, as well as impaired IL-2-mediated signaling and proliferative responses, characterize SLE CD4+ T cells. Our data demonstrate the need for caution in designing IL-2 treatment trials for patients with SLE. Approaches to restore CD4+ T cell sensitivity to IL-2 should be considered.
30778343 | Clinical, Immunological, and Molecular Findings in 57 Patients With Severe Combined Immunodeficiency (SCID) From India. Severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) represents one of the most severe forms of primary immunodeficiency (PID) disorders characterized by impaired cellular and humoral immune responses. Here, we report the clinical, immunological, and molecular findings in 57 patients diagnosed with SCID from India. Majority of our patients (89%) presented within 6 months of age. The most common clinical manifestations observed were recurrent pneumonia (66%), failure to thrive (60%), chronic diarrhea (35%), gastrointestinal infection (21%), and oral candidiasis (21%). Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation (HSCT) is the only curative therapy available for treating these patients. Four patients underwent HSCT in our cohort but had a poor survival outcome. Lymphopenia (absolute lymphocyte counts/muL <2,500) was noted in 63% of the patients. Based on immunophenotypic pattern, majority of the cases were T-B- SCID (39%) followed by T-B+ SCID (28%). MHC class II deficiency accounted for 10.5% of our patient group. A total of 49 patients were molecularly characterized in this study and 32 novel variants were identified in our cohort. The spectrum of genetic defects in our cohort revealed a wide genetic heterogeneity with the major genetic cause being RAG1/2 gene defect (n = 12) followed by IL2RG (n = 9) and JAK3 defects (n = 9). Rare forms of SCID like Purine nucleoside phosphorylase (PNP) deficiency, reticular dysgenesis, DNA-Protein Kinase (DNA-PKcs) deficiency, six cases of MHC class II deficiency and two ZAP70 deficiency were also identified in our cohort. Fourteen percent of the defects still remained uncharacterized despite the application of next generation sequencing. With the exception of MHC class II deficiency and ZAP70 deficiency, all SCID patients had extremely low T cell receptor excision (TRECs) (<18 copies/muL).
31483188 | JAK3 inhibitor-based immunosuppression in allogeneic islet transplantation in cynomolgus monkeys. Islet transplantation is efficacious to prevent severe hypoglycemia and glycemic liability of selected patients of type 1 diabetes. However, since calcineurin inhibitor (CNI) causes beta-cell and nephrotoxicity, alternative drug(s) with similar potency and safety profile to CNI will be highly desirable. Here we tested whether JAK3 inhibitor, tofacitinib could be used instead of tacrolimus in CIT07 immunosuppression regimen in cynomolgus nonhuman primate (NHP) model. Five independent streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic monkeys were transplanted with MHC-mismatched allogeneic islets and three animals were further re-transplanted upon insufficient glycemic control or early islet graft rejection. After islet transplantation, blood glucose levels were quickly stabilized and maximal islet graft survival as measured by serum C-peptide concentration was >330, 98, >134, 31, or 22 days, respectively, after transplantation (median survival day; 98 days). Cellular and humoral immune responses were efficiently suppressed by JAK3 inhibitor-based immunosuppression during the follow-up periods. Although intermittent increases of the genome copy number of cynomolgus cytomegalovirus (CMV) were detected by quantitative real-time PCR analyses, serious infections or posttransplant lymphoproliferative disease (PTLD) was not found in all animals. Taken together, we have shown that JAK3 inhibitor could be used in replacement of tacrolimus in a highly translatable NHP islet transplantation model and these results suggest that JAK3 inhibitor will be potentially incorporated in human allogeneic islet transplantation.
31545408 | Genome profiling revealed the activation of IL2RG/JAK3/STAT5 in peripheral T-cell lymphoma expressing the ITK-SYK fusion gene. Peripheral T-cell lymphomas (PTCLs) are heterogeneous malignancies that are types of non-Hodgkin lymphomas; patients with this disease have poor prognoses. The IL-2-inducible T-cell kinase-spleen tyrosine kinase (ITK-SYK) fusion gene, the first recurrent chromosome translocation in PTCL-not otherwise specified (NOS), can drive cellular transformation and the development of T-cell lymphoma in mouse models. The aim of the current study was to investigate the signal transduction pathways downstream of ITK-SYK. The authors constructed a lentiviral vector to overexpress the ITK-SYK fusion gene in Jurkat cells. By using Signal-Net and cluster analyses of microarray data, the authors identified the tyrosine-protein kinase JAK (JAK)3/STAT5 signalling pathway as a downstream pathway of ITK-SYK, activation of which mediates the effects of ITK-SYK on tumourigenesis. JAK3-selective inhibitor tofacitinib abrogated the phosphorylation of downstream signalling molecule STAT5, supressed cell growth, induced cell apoptosis and arrested the cell cycle at the G1/S phase in ITK-SYK+ Jurkat cells. In a xenograft mouse model, tumour growth was significantly delayed by tofacitinib. Since JAK3 associates with interleukin-2 receptor subunit gamma (IL2RG) only, siRNA-specific knockdown of IL2RG showed the same effect as tofacitinib treatment in vitro. These results first demonstrated that the activation of the IL2RG/JAK3/STAT5 signalling pathway contributed greatly to the oncogenic progress regulated by ITK-SYK, supporting further investigation of JAK3 inhibitors for the treatment of PTCLs carrying the ITK-SYK fusion gene.
32090602 | Signaling through the interleukin-4 and interleukin-13 receptor complexes regulates cholangiocyte TMEM16A expression and biliary secretion. TMEM16A is a Ca2+-activated Cl- channel in the apical membrane of biliary epithelial cells, known as cholangiocytes, which contributes importantly to ductular bile formation. Whereas cholangiocyte TMEM16A activity is regulated by extracellular ATP-binding membrane purinergic receptors, channel expression is regulated by interleukin-4 (IL-4) through an unknown mechanism. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to identify the signaling pathways involved in TMEM16A expression and cholangiocyte secretion. Studies were performed in polarized normal rat cholangiocyte monolayers, human Mz-Cha-1 biliary cells, and cholangiocytes isolated from murine liver tissue. The results demonstrate that all the biliary models expressed the IL-4Ralpha/IL-13Ralpha1 receptor complex. Incubation of cholangiocytes with either IL-13 or IL-4 increased the expression of TMEM16A protein, which was associated with an increase in the magnitude of Ca2+-activated Cl- currents in response to ATP in single cells and the short-circuit current response in polarized monolayers. The IL-4- and IL-13-mediated increase in TMEM16A expression was also associated with an increase in STAT6 phosphorylation. Specific inhibition of JAK-3 inhibited the increase in TMEM16A expression and the IL-4-mediated increase in ATP-stimulated currents, whereas inhibition of STAT6 inhibited both IL-4- and IL-13-mediated increases in TMEM16A expression and ATP-stimulated secretion. These studies demonstrate that the cytokines IL-13 and IL-4 regulate the expression and function of biliary TMEM16A channels through a signaling pathway involving STAT6. Identification of this regulatory pathway provides new insight into biliary secretion and suggests new targets to enhance bile formation in the treatment of cholestatic liver disorders.NEW & NOTEWORTHY The Ca2+-activated Cl- channel transmembrane member 16A (TMEM16A) has emerged as an important regulator of biliary secretion and hence, ductular bile formation. The present studies represent the initial description of the regulation of TMEM16A expression in biliary epithelium. Identification of this regulatory pathway involving the IL-4 and IL-13 receptor complex and JAK-3 and STAT-6 signaling provides new insight into biliary secretion and suggests new therapeutic targets to enhance bile formation in the treatment of cholestatic liver disorders.
32698510 | The Effect of JAK Inhibitor on the Survival, Anagen Re-Entry, and Hair Follicle Immune Privilege Restoration in Human Dermal Papilla Cells. Topical or systemic administration of JAK inhibitors has been shown to be a new treatment modality for severe alopecia areata (AA). Some patients show a good response to JAK inhibitors, but frequently relapse after cessation of the treatment. There have been no guidelines about the indications and use of JAK inhibitors in treating AA. The basic pathomechanism of AA and the relevant role of JAK inhibitors should support how to efficiently use JAK inhibitors. We sought to investigate the effect of JAK1/2 inhibitor on an in vitro model of AA and to examine the possible mechanisms. We used interferon gamma-pretreated human dermal papilla cells (hDPCs) as an in vitro model of AA. Ruxolitinib was administered to the hDPCs, and cell viability was assessed. The change of expression of the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway, molecules related to the JAK-STAT pathway, and growth factors in ruxolitinib-treated hDPCs was also examined by reverse transcription PCR and Western blot assay. We examined immune-privilege-related molecules by immunohistochemistry in hair-follicle culture models. Ruxolitinib did not affect the cell viability of the hDPCs. Ruxolitinib activated several molecules in the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway, including Lef1 and beta-catenin, and suppressed the transcription of DKK1 in hDPCs, but not its translation. Ruxolitinib reverted IFN-gamma-induced expression of caspase-1, IL-1beta, IL-15, and IL-18, and stimulated several growth factors, such as FGF7. Ruxolitinib suppressed the phosphorylation of JAK1, JAK2 and JAK3, and STAT1 and 3 compared to IFN-gamma pretreated hDPCs. Ruxolitinib pretreatment showed a protective effect on IFN-gamma-induced expression of MHC-class II molecules in cultured hair follicles. In conclusion, ruxolitinib modulated and reverted the interferon-induced inflammatory changes by blocking the JAK-STAT pathway in hDPCs under an AA-like environment. Ruxolitinib directly stimulated anagen-re-entry signals in hDPCs by affecting the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway and promoting growth factors in hDPCs. Ruxolitinib treatment prevented IFN-gamma-induced collapse of hair-follicle immune privilege.
33906298 | Establishment of Nude Mice Lacking NK Cells and Their Application for Human Tumor Xenografts. OBJECTIVE: Nude mice are used as a recipient for human tumor cell xenografts. However, the success rate of xenotransplantation is unsatisfactory due to high natural killer (NK) activity. To overcome this limitation, we established nude mice with no NK cells, and compared the transplantation efficiency with that in nude mice. METHODS: BALB/c Nude Jak3-/- (Nude-J) mice were established by crossing BALB/c Nude mice and BALB/c Jak-3-/- mice. Hematopoietic malignant cell lines (BCBL-1 and Z138) were implanted subcutaneously to compare the tumorigenicity in Nude-J mice with Nude Rag-2/Jak3 double deficient (Nude RJ) mice and nude mice. RESULTS: Nude-J mice showed complete loss of NK and T lymphocytes, whereas B lymphocytes remained. Both BCBL-1 and Z138 human lymphoid malignant cell lines formed almost the same sizes of subcutaneous tumors in Nude-J and Nude RJ mice, whereas they formed no or only small tumors in nude mice. Splenocytes from Nude-J mice showed no cytotoxic activity in vitro. CONCLUSION: Nude-J mice can be a valuable tool for human tumor cell transplantation studies.<br />.
34391476 | Blocking Jak/STAT signalling using tofacitinib inhibits angiogenesis in experimental arthritis. OBJECTIVE: During rheumatoid arthritis (RA), the angiogenic processes, occurring with pannus-formation, may be a therapeutic target. JAK/STAT-pathway may play a role and the aim of this work was to investigate the inhibiting role of a JAK-inhibitor, tofacitinib, on the angiogenic mechanisms occurring during RA. METHODS: After ethical approval, JAK-1, JAK-3, STAT-1, STAT-3 and VEGF expression was evaluated on RA-synovial-tissues. In vitro, endothelial cells (ECs), stimulated with 20 ng/ml of VEGF and/or 1 muM of tofacitinib, were assessed for tube formation, migration and proliferation, by Matrigel, Boyden chamber assay and ki67 gene-expression. In vivo, 32 mice received collagen (collagen-induced arthritis (CIA)) and 32 mice PBS (control). At day 19, CIA and controls mice were divided: 16 mice receiving vehicle and 16 mice receiving tofacitinib. At day 35, the arthritis score, the thickness of paw joints and the serum levels of VEGF and Ang-2 were evaluated. RESULTS: The expression of JAK-1, JAK-3, STAT-1, STAT-3 and VEGF in synovial tissue of RA-patients were significantly higher than healthy controls. In vitro, tofacitinib inhibited the ECs ability to form vessels, to proliferate and to migrate. In vivo, administration of tofacitinib prevented the increase of the arthritis score, the paw thickness, the synovial vessels and VEGF and Ang-2 serum-accumulation, when compared to CIA without tofacitinib. CONCLUSIONS: We explored the anti-angiogenic role of tofacitinib, reporting its ability to inhibit in vitro the angiogenic mechanisms of ECs and in vivo the formation of new synovial vessels, occurring in CIA model. These findings suggest that the therapeutic effect of tofacitinib during RA may be also related to its anti-angiogenic activity.
35571141 | Suppression of NLRP3 Inflammasome by Dihydroarteannuin via the HIF-1alpha and JAK3/STAT3 Signaling Pathway Contributes to Attenuation of Collagen-Induced Arthritis in Mice. Dihydroarteannuin (DHA), the primary element of artemisinin extracted from the traditional Chinese herb Artemisia annua L., has been used in malaria treatment for a long time. Recently, many studies have indicated that DHA also exhibits potent anti-rheumatoid arthritis (RA) activity. In this study, collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) in DBA/1J mice and inflammatory model in THP-1 cells were established to evaluate the modulatory effects of DHA on joint destruction and to explore the underlying mechanisms. Our results showed that DHA decreased the serum levels of IL-1beta and IL-6, alleviated paw oedema, and reduced bone destruction in DBA/1J mice with CIA. Further exploration with the inflammatory model in THP-1 cells indicated that DHA reduced the protein expression of hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1alpha and the phosphorylation in Janus kinase (JAK) 3 and signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) 3 protein, which resulted in a decrease in NOD-like receptor protein (NLRP) 3 expression and interleukin (IL)-1beta release. Consequentially, the inflammatory activation in THP-1 cells was inhibited. Therefore, we concluded that DHA efficiently alleviated the inflammation and arthritic symptoms in CIA mice and downregulated inflammation in part by inhibiting NLRP3 expression via the HIF-1alpha and JAK3/STAT3 signaling pathway. Thus, DHA may be considered as a potential therapeutic agent in RA treatment.
35711462 | Podocalyxin Expressed in Antigen Presenting Cells Promotes Interaction With T Cells and Alters Centrosome Translocation to the Contact Site. Podocalyxin (PODXL), a cell surface sialomucin expressed in diverse types of normal and malignant cells, mediates cellular adhesion to extracellular matrix and cell-to-cell interaction. A previous study reported the expression of PODXL protein on monocytes undergoing macrophage differentiation, yet the expression of this molecule in other antigen presenting cells (APCs) and its function in the immune system still remain undetermined. In this study, we report that PODXL is expressed in human monocyte-derived immature dendritic cells at both the mRNA and protein levels. Following dendritric cells maturation using pro-inflammatory stimuli, PODXL expression level decreased substantially. Furthermore, we found that PODXL expression is positively regulated by IL-4 through MEK/ERK and JAK3/STAT6 signaling pathways. Our results revealed a polarized distribution of PODXL during the interaction of APCs with CD4+ T cells, partially colocalizing with F-actin. Notably, PODXL overexpression in APCs promoted their interaction with CD4+ T cells and CD8+ T cells and decreased the expression of MHC-I, MHC-II, and the costimulatory molecule CD86. In addition, PODXL reduced the translocation of CD4+ T-cell centrosome toward the APC-contact site. These findings suggest a regulatory role for PODXL expressed by APCs in immune responses, thus representing a potential target for therapeutic blockade in infection and cancer.
35732501 | Low-Dose JAK3 Inhibition Improves Antitumor T-Cell Immunity and Immunotherapy Efficacy. Terminal T-cell exhaustion poses a significant barrier to effective anticancer immunotherapy efficacy, with current drugs aimed at reversing exhaustion being limited. Recent investigations into the molecular drivers of T-cell exhaustion have led to the identification of chronic IL2 receptor (IL2R)-STAT5 pathway signaling in mediating T-cell exhaustion. We targeted the key downstream IL2R-intermediate JAK 3 using a clinically relevant highly specific JAK3-inhibitor (JAK3i; PF-06651600) that potently inhibited STAT5-phosphorylation in vitro. Whereas pulsed high-dose JAK3i administration inhibited antitumor T-cell effector function, low-dose chronic JAK3i significantly improved T-cell responses and decreased tumor load in mouse models of solid cancer. Low-dose JAK3i combined with cellular and peptide vaccine strategies further decreased tumor load compared with both monotherapies alone. Collectively, these results identify JAK3 as a novel and promising target for combination immunotherapy.
37019883 | 110 mum thin endo-microscope for deep-brain in vivo observations of neuronal connectivity, activity and blood flow dynamics. Light-based in-vivo brain imaging relies on light transport over large distances of highly scattering tissues. Scattering gradually reduces imaging contrast and resolution, making it difficult to reach structures at greater depths even with the use of multiphoton techniques. To reach deeper, minimally invasive endo-microscopy techniques have been established. These most commonly exploit graded-index rod lenses and enable a variety of modalities in head-fixed and freely moving animals. A recently proposed alternative is the use of holographic control of light transport through multimode optical fibres promising much less traumatic application and superior imaging performance. We present a 110 mum thin laser-scanning endo-microscope based on this prospect, enabling in-vivo volumetric imaging throughout the whole depth of the mouse brain. The instrument is equipped with multi-wavelength detection and three-dimensional random access options, and it performs at lateral resolution below 1 mum. We showcase various modes of its application through the observations of fluorescently labelled neurones, their processes and blood vessels. Finally, we demonstrate how to exploit the instrument to monitor calcium signalling of neurones and to measure blood flow velocity in individual vessels at high speeds.
37550228 | Effect of Janus Kinase 3 Inhibitor on Sebaceous Gland Regeneration during Skin Wound Healing. BACKGROUND: Janus kinase (Jak) 3 has recently been shown as a beneficial target for the treatment of chronic inflammatory diseases, such as psoriasis and alopecia areata. The role of Jak3 in tissue repair and remodeling is emerging. OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to investigate the role of Jak3 signaling in the remodeling of the sebaceous gland (SG) during skin wound repair, and the development of in vitro SGs. METHODS: Mouse skin tissue (ICR mouse) was obtained from the recovered skin eight days after a 4 mm biopsy punch wound. To observe the role of Jak3, the selective inhibitors WHI-p131 and PF06651600 was administered. Formation of in vitro SG was examined using primary sebocyte cultures obtained postnatally from 3-day-old mice. RESULTS: The data showed that SGs showed highly positive signals with anti-isolectin B4, which also used for detection of angiogenetic vessels and the basal epidermis. Isolectin B4 could be a good indicator of SGs. The Jak3 inhibitors significantly reduced the area and volume of SG remodeling with reduced expression of p-Jak3. In addition, the area of cultured intact SG in vitro was significantly decreased in a concentration-dependent manner by Jak3 inhibition. CONCLUSION: These data showed that Jak3 signaling is a potent regulator to develop SGs. Jak3 inhibition did not decrease the number of sebocytes in SGs but decreased the area and volume of SG remodeling. Therefore, Jak3 inhibition may be a potential target for the treatment of SG hyperplasia and associated skin diseases.
37988912 | Therapeutic potential of a synthetic dual JAK1/TYK2 inhibitor in inflammatory bowel disease. Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a chronic and incurable disease with an increasing incidence rate and low mortality rate. Selectively inhibiting JAK1 and TYK2 has been proposed as a strategy to enhance the efficacy of such inhibitors while minimizing the potential side effects on other JAK isoforms. Our previous studies identified small molecule 18 as a JAK1/TYK2 inhibitor with high selectivity and a new structure. Specifically, the IC50 of 18 at the kinase level reached 39 nM and 21 nM for JAK1 and TYK2, respectively, with 10-fold selectivity over both JAK2 and JAK3. In in vitro studies, 18 dose-dependently inhibited cytokine-induced STAT phosphorylation downstream of the JAK1 and TYK2 signaling pathway. In pharmacokinetic experiments, 18 demonstrated an oral bioavailability of 59.82%, making it a promising candidate for further in vivo studies. Using two mouse models of acute ulcerative colitis (UC) induced by the administration of dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) or oxazolone (OXA), 18 dose-dependently showed a better therapeutic effect than the positive control drug tofacitinib. Additionally, after long-term administration for 32 days, 18 displayed low toxicity to mice and a high safety profile. Taken together, these findings suggest that 18 is a JAK1/TYK2 dual inhibitor with therapeutic effects superior to those of tofacitinib in the treatment of IBD. Moreover, 18 is also a suitable clinical candidate for further investigation in diseases with strong involvement from interferon and/or IL-12/IL-23 in their pathogenesis. This study confirmed the therapeutic effect and long-term safety of inhibiting JAK1 and TYK2 to treat IBD.
38114221 | [Tongxie Yaofang regulates tumor-associated macrophage polarization in colorectal cancer under chronic stress]. This study aims to investigate the intervention effect and mechanism of Tongxie Yaofang in regulating tumor-associated macrophage polarization on colorectal cancer under chronic stress. BALB/C mice were randomized into blank, control, model, mifepristone, and low-, medium-, and high-dose Tongxie Yaofang groups. The other groups except the blank and model groups were subjected to chronic restraint stress and subcutaneous implantation of colon cancer cells for the modeling of colon cancer under stress. Du-ring this period, the body mass and tumor size of each group of mice were recorded. The degree of depression in mice was assessed by behavioral changes. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was employed to determine the levels of cortisol(CORT), 5-hydroxytryptamine(5-HT), norepinephrine(NE), M1-associated inflammatory cytokines [interleukin(IL)-1beta, IL-12, and tumor necrosis factor(TNF)-alpha], and M2-associated inflammatory cytokines(IL-4 and IL-10) in the serum. The tumor growth of mice in each group was regularly monitored by in vivo imaging. The histopathological changes of tumors in each group of mice were observed by hematoxylin-eosin staining. The proportions of CD86 and CD206 in the tumor tissue were detected by flow cytometry and immunofluorescence staining. Western blot was employed to determine the protein levels of Janus kinase(JAK)1, JAK2, JAK3, signal transducer and activator of transcription(STAT)3, and STAT6 in the tumor tissue. The results showed that chronic stress increased the immobility time of mice, elevated the serum levels of CORT, IL-4, and IL-10, lowered the levels of 5-HT, NE, IL-1beta, IL-12, and TNF-alpha, and promoted the growth of subcutaneous tumors. The tumor cells in the tumor tissue grew actively, with obvious atypia and up-regulated protein levels of CD206, JAK1, JAK2, JAK3, STAT3, and STAT6, and down-regulated protein level of CD86. The treatment with Tongxie Yaofang shortened the immobility time of mice, lowered the serum levels of CORT, IL-4, and IL-10, elevated the serum levels of 5-HT, NE, IL-1beta, IL-12, and TNF-alpha, and inhibited the growth of subcutaneous tumors in mice. Moreover, the treatment caused different degrees of necrosis in the tumor tissues, down-regulated the protein levels of CD206, JAK1, JAK2, JAK3, STAT3, and STAT6, and up-regulated the protein level of CD86. In summary, Tongxie Yaofang can promote the transformation of M2 macrophages to M1 macrophages and change the tumor microenvironment under chronic stress to inhibit the development of colorectal cancer, which may be related to the JAK/STAT signaling pathway.
38172378 | The disruptor of telomeric silencing 1-like (DOT1L) promotes peritoneal fibrosis through the upregulation and activation of protein tyrosine kinases. The disruptor of telomeric silencing 1-like (DOT1L), a specific histone methyltransferase that catalyzed methylation of histone H3 on lysine 79, was associated with the pathogenesis of many diseases, but its role in peritoneal fibrosis remained unexplored. Here, we examined the role of DOT1L in the expression and activation of protein tyrosine kinases and development of peritoneal fibrosis. We found that a significant rise of DOT1L expression in the fibrotic peritoneum tissues from long-term PD patients and mice. Inhibition of DOT1L significantly attenuated the profibrotic phenotypic differentiation of mesothelial cells and macrophages, and alleviated peritoneal fibrosis. Mechanistically, RNA sequencing and proteomic analysis indicated that DOT1L was mainly involved in the processes of protein tyrosine kinase binding and extracellular matrix structural constituent in the peritoneum. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) showed that intranuclear DOT1L guided H3K79me2 to upregulate EGFR in mesothelial cells and JAK3 in macrophages. Immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence showed that extranuclear DOT1L could interact with EGFR and JAK3, and maintain the activated signaling pathways. In summary, DOT1L promoted the expression and activation of tyrosine kinases (EGFR in mesothelial cells and JAK3 in macrophages), promoting cells differentiate into profibrotic phenotype and thus peritoneal fibrosis. We provide the novel mechanism of dialysis-related peritoneal fibrosis (PF) and the new targets for clinical drug development. DOT1L inhibitor had the PF therapeutic potential.
38249884 | Knockdown of Slfn5 alleviates lipopolysaccharide-induced pneumonia by regulating Janus kinase/signal transduction and activator of transcription pathway. Background: In recent years, the incidence of pneumonia has been increasing, which is the main cause of death and morbidity of children and the elderly in the world. Slfn5 is implicated in multiple cancers, and Slfn5 promotes epithelial-mesenchymal transition and metastasis in lung cancer. However, the influences of Slfn5 in pneumonia have not yet been completely cleared. Herein, we aimed to explore the underlying effects and regulatory mechanisms of Slfn5 in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced pneumonia in mice and A549 cells. Methods: Mice were intratracheally administered 5 mg/kg LPS to construct pneumonia model. In vitro, A549 cells were treated with 10 microg/mL LPS to construct cellular pneumonia model. Slfn5 expression was detected using immunohistochemistry and western blotting. Haematoxylin and eosin staining, TUNEL (terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferasemediated deoxyuridine triphosphate-biotin nick end-labelling), and western blotting were performed to assess pathological injury and inflammation. MTT [3(4,5-dimethyl-2-thiazolyl)-2,5-diphenyl-2-H-tetrazolium bromide], flow cytometry, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay analysis were performed to analyze cell viability, apoptosis, and inflammation. Gene set enrichment analysis was performed to explore the mechanism of Slfn5 in pneumonia. Results: Slfn5 expression was upregulated in LPS-induced pneumonia in mice and A549 cells. In mice, knockdown of Slfn5 weakened LPS-induced lung injury and inflammation and decreased the expression of p-JAK2, p-JAK3, and p-STAT3. In LPS-stimulated A549 cells, downregulation of Slfn5 expression increased and Slfn5 overexpression decreased cell viability. Downregulation of Slfn5 expression decreased and Slfn5 overexpression increased cell apoptosis, inflammation and the expression of p-JAK2, p-JAK3, and p-STAT3. AG490, an inhibitor of the JAK/STAT pathway, reversed the damaging effects of Slfn5 overexpression. Conclusions: In the LPS-induced pneumonia model, Slfn5 knockdown alleviated LPS-induced lung injury by regulating the JAK/STAT pathway.
38260810 | New Insights into Roles of IL-7R Gene as a Therapeutic Target Following Intracerebral Hemorrhage. Background: Spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is a subtype of stroke leading to high rates of morbidity and mortality in adults. Recent studies showed that immune and inflammatory responses might play essential roles in secondary brain injury. The purpose of this article was to provide a reference for further therapeutic strategies for ICH patients. Methods: GSE206971 and GSE216607 datasets from the gene expression omnibus (GEO) database were used to screen the highly immune-related differentally expressed genes (IRDEGs). We used the CIBERSORT algorithm to assess the level of immune signatures infiltration and got the possible function of IRDEGs which was analyzed through Gene Ontology (GO) analysis and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks and six hub genes were identified in the Cytoscape plug-in. GSVA algorithm was performed to evaluate the potential pathways of six hub genes in ICH samples. The expression level of IL-7R chosen from six hub genes was further validated by Western blotting. The cell models of ICH were established for the research of IL-7/IL-7R signaling way. Results: A total of six hub genes (ITGAX, ITGAM, CCR2, CD28, SELL, and IL-7R) were identified. IL-7R was highly expressed in the mice ICH group, as shown by immunoblotting. Next, we constructed ICH cell models in RAW264.7 cells and BV2 cells. After treatment with IL-7, iNOS expression (M1 marker) was greatly inhibited while Arg-1(M2 marker) was enhanced, and it might function via the JAK3/STAT5 signaling pathway. Conclusion: The hypothesis is proposed that the IL-7/IL-7R signaling pathway might regulate the inflammatory process following ICH by regulating microglia polarization. Our study is limited and requires more in-depth experimental confirmation.
38310765 | Radical S-adenosyl methionine domain-containing 2, a potential target of D-tryptophan in asthma treatment, regulates T helper cell type 1/2 balance. Asthma is a common chronic respiratory disease. D-tryptophan (D-TRP) can inhibit allergic airway inflammation and T helper cell type 2 (Th2) immune response. RNA-sequencing results have indicated that radical S-adenosyl methionine domain-containing 2 (RSAD2) might be a potential molecular target of D-TRP in asthma treatment. Herein, we established a mouse model of asthma using ovalbumin (OVA) via intraperitoneal injection and inhalational challenge. Gain- and loss-of-function studies of RSAD2 were performed in mice following the intratracheal delivery of lentiviral vectors (3 x 106 TU/mL). Naive CD-4+ T cells were isolated from the spleen and used to explore the effects of RSAD2 on Th2 cell differentiation. RSAD2 expression was higher in the asthma group than in the control group. RSAD2 knockdown alleviated inflammatory cell infiltration and reduced the number of goblet cells. Low RSAD2 expression decreased the levels of IgE, IL-25, IL-33, and TSLP, and it reduced the number of inflammatory cells in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid. RSAD2 silencing suppressed Th2-related cytokine levels (such as IL-4, IL-5, and IL-13) and increased Th1-related cytokine levels (such as IFN-gamma). Additionally, RSAD2 knockdown inhibited the phosphorylation of JAK1, JAK3, and STAT6, and downregulated GATA-3 expression. RSAD2 overexpression increased inflammatory cell infiltration and mucus secretion in the lung tissues of mice pretreated with D-TRP. D-TRP pretreatment reduced OVA-specific IgE content and IL-4 and IL-5 levels, and it increased the IFN-gamma levels; however, RSAD2 overexpression reversed these effects. In conclusion, RSAD2 knockdown can mitigate OVA-induced asthma by regulating the Th2 immune response via JAK/STAT6 pathway inhibition.
38349589 | Flavipin from fungi as a potential inhibitor of rheumatoid arthritis signaling molecules. Flavipin, a fungal lower molecular weight biomolecule (MW 196.16 g/mol), has not been yet extensively studied for beneficial preclinical and clinical applications. In recent years, various preclinical mouse models including adjuvant-induced arthritis (AIA) were employed to understand mechanisms associated with Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and to develop new therapeutic drugs. In the current study, we studied the inhibitory effect of Flavipin on major signaling molecules involved in the inflammatory response during RA using both in-silico virtual interaction and in vivo mouse model of AIA. Our in-silico results clarified that Flavipin interacts with the tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) through conventional hydrogen binding (H-H) at one of TNF-alpha critical amino acids tyrosine residues, Tyr119, with binding energy (b.e.) -5.9. In addition, Flavipin binds to ATP-binging sites of the Jesus kinases, JAK1, JAK2 and JAK3, through H-H (b. e. between -5.8 and -6.1) and then it may inhibit JAKs, regulators of RA signaling molecules. Moreover, our molecular dynamics stimulation for the docked TNF-alpha/Flavipin complex confirmed the specificity and the stability of the interaction. In vitro, Flavipin is not toxic to normal cells at doses below 50 microM (its IC50 in normal fibroblast cell line was above 100 microM). However, in vivo, the arthritis score and hind paw oedema parameters were modulated in Flavipin treated mice. Consistent with the in-silico results the levels of the TNF-alpha, the nuclear transcription factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) and the signal transduction and activator of transcription (STAT3, downstream of JAKs) were modulated at joint tissues of the hind-paw of Flavipin/AIA treated mice. Our data suggest Flavipin as a potential therapeutic agent for arthritis can inhibit RA major signaling molecules.
38375265 | Down-regulation of zinc finger protein 335 undermines natural killer cell function in mouse colitis-associated colorectal carcinoma. Natural killer (NK) cells constitute an active and potent anti-tumor effector population against multiple malignancies. NK cells exploit tumoricidal machinery to restrain colorectal carcinoma (CRC) expansion and invasion. Nonetheless, it is becoming increasingly evident that functional exhaustion considerably compromises the potency of NK cells in patients with CRC. To elucidate the factors that impair NK cell function in the context of CRC, we determined the role of zinc finger protein 335 (ZFP335) in modulating NK cell activity in mouse CRC induced by azoxymethane and dextran sulfate sodium. ZFP335 was profoundly decreased in NK cells in mesenteric lymph nodes of CRC-bearing mice. ZFP335 was especially diminished in NK cells that were both phenotypically and functionally exhausted. Besides, effective ZFP335 knockdown markedly undermined NK cell proliferation, tumoricidal protein production, degranulation, and cytotoxic efficacy on malignant cells, strongly suggesting that ZFP335 reinforces NK cell function. Importantly, ZFP335 knockdown lowered the expression of Janus kinase 1 (JAK1) and Janus kinase 3 (JAK3), both of which play crucial roles in NK cell homeostasis and activation. Collectively, ZFP335 down-regulation is essential for NK cell exhaustion in mesenteric lymph nodes of mice with CRC. We discovered a new ZFP335-JAK1/3 signaling pathway that modulates NK cell exhaustion.
38442328 | Design and synthesis of highly selective Janus kinase 3 covalent inhibitors for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Selective inhibition of Janus kinase 3 (JAK3) is a promising strategy for the treatment of autoimmune diseases. Based on the discovery of a hydrophobic pocket unutilized between the lead compound RB1 and the JAK3 protein, a series of covalent JAK3 inhibitors were prepared by introducing various aromatic fragments to RB1. Among them, J1b (JAK3 IC50  = 7.2 nM, other JAKs IC50  > 1000 nM) stood out because of its low toxicity (MTD > 2 g/kg) and superior anti-inflammatory activity in Institute of Cancer Research mice. Moreover, the acceptable bioavailability (F% = 31.69%) ensured that J1b displayed excellent immune regulation in collagen-induced arthritis mice, whose joints in the high-dose group were almost recovered to a normal state. Given its clear kinase selectivity (Bmx IC50  = 539.9 nM, other Cys909 kinases IC50  > 1000 nM), J1b was nominated as a highly selective JAK3 covalent inhibitor, which could be used to safely treat arthritis and other autoimmune diseases.
38547769 | Peficitinib alleviated acute lung injury by blocking glycolysis through JAK3/STAT3 pathway. Peficitinib is a selective Janus kinase (JAK3) inhibitor recently developed and approved for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis in Japan. Glycolysis in macrophages could induce NOD-like receptor (NLR) family and pyrin domain-containing protein 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome activation, thus resulting in pyroptosis and acute lung injury (ALI). The aim of our study was to investigate whether Peficitinib could alleviate lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced ALI by inhibiting NLRP3 inflammasome activation. Wild type C57BL/6J mice were intraperitoneally injected with Peficitinib (5 or 10 mg kg-1 day-1) for 7 consecutive days before LPS injection. The results showed that Peficitinib pretreatment significantly relieved LPS-induced pulmonary edema, inflammation, and apoptosis. NLRP3 inflammasome and glycolysis in murine lung tissues challenged with LPS were also blocked by Peficitinib. Furthermore, we found that the activation of JAK3/signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) was also suppressed by Peficitinib in mice with ALI. However, in Jak3 knockout mice, Peficitinib did not show obvious protective effects after LPS injection. In vitro experiments further showed that Jak3 overexpression completely abolished Peficitinib-elicited inhibitory effects on pyroptosis and glycolysis in LPS-induced RAW264.7 macrophages. Finally, we unveiled that LPS-induced activation of JAK3/STAT3 was mediated by toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) in RAW264.7 macrophages. Collectively, our study proved that Peficitinib could protect against ALI by blocking JAK3-mediated glycolysis and pyroptosis in macrophages, which may serve as a promising candidate against ALI in the future.
38641760 | IRG1/Itaconate inhibits proliferation and promotes apoptosis of CD69+CD103+CD8+ tissue-resident memory T cells in autoimmune hepatitis by regulating the JAK3/STAT3/P53 signalling pathway. To investigate the protective role of immune response gene 1 (IRG1) and exogenous itaconate in autoimmune hepatitis (AIH) and elucidate the underlying mechanisms. Wild-type and IRG1-/- AIH mouse models were established, and samples of liver tissue and ocular blood were collected from each group of mice to assess the effects of IRG1/itaconate on the expression of pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines. The levels of liver enzymes and related inflammatory factors were determined using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Liver histomorphology was detected through hematoxylin and eosin staining and then scored for liver injury, and the infiltration levels of tissue-resident memory T (TRM) cells and related molecules in the liver tissue were detected through immunofluorescence staining in vitro. RNA sequencing and gene enrichment analysis were conducted to identify the corresponding molecules and pathways, and lentiviral transfection was used to generate TRM cell lines with IRG1, Jak3, Stat3, and p53 knockdown. Real-time quantitative PCR and western blot were performed to detect the expression levels of relevant mRNAs and proteins in the liver tissue and cells. The percentage of apoptotic cells was determined using flow cytometry. IRG1/itaconate effectively reduced the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines and the pathological damage to liver tissue, thereby maintaining normal liver function. At the same time, IRG1/itaconate inhibited the JAK3/STAT3 signaling pathway, regulated the expression of related downstream proteins, and inhibited the proliferation and promoted the apoptosis of CD69+CD103+CD8+ TRM cells. For the first time, P53 was found to act as a downstream molecule of the JAK3/STAT3 pathway and was regulated by IRG1/itaconate to promote the apoptosis of CD8+ TRM cells. IRG1/itaconate can alleviate concanavalin A-induced autoimmune hepatitis in mice by inhibiting the proliferation and promoting the apoptosis of CD69+CD103+CD8+ TRM cells via the JAK3/STAT3/P53 pathway.
6286775 | Generation of long-term human cytolytic cell lines with persistent natural killer activity. Human cell lines maintained by in vitro stimulation with the HLA-A, B-negative, DR-positive, Epstein Barr virus-transformed, lymphoblastoid cell line Daudi in the presence of conditioned medium demonstrated significant NK activity for over 6 wk in continuous culture. These cells lyse K562 and a broad panel of lymphoblastoid cell lines but do not lyse normal peripheral blood lymphocytes or pokeweed mitogen blasts. They possess the sheep red blood cell receptor but lack other T cell markers (Lyt-3+, OKT3-). Natural killer activity correlated with the presence of a Mac 1-positive subpopulation of cells present in these long-term lines.
9177355 | Crystal structure of the complex between human CD8alpha(alpha) and HLA-A2. The dimeric cell-surface glycoprotein CD8 is crucial to the positive selection of cytotoxic T cells in the thymus. The homodimer CD8alpha(alpha) or the heterodimer alpha beta stabilizes the interaction of the T-cell antigen receptor (TCR) with major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I/peptide by binding to the class I molecule. Here we report the crystal structure at 2.7 A resolution of a complex between CD8alpha(alpha) and the human MHC molecule HLA-A2, which is associated with peptide. CD8alpha(alpha) binds one HLA-A2/peptide molecule, interfacing with the alpha2 and alpha3 domains of HLA-A2 and also contacting beta2-microglobulin. A flexible loop of the alpha3 domain (residues 223-229) is clamped between the complementarity-determining region (CDR)-like loops of the two CD8 subunits in the classic manner of an antibody-antigen interaction, precluding the binding of a second MHC molecule. The position of the alpha3 domain is different from that in uncomplexed HLA-A2, being most similar to that in the TCR/Tax/HLA-A2 complex, but no conformational change extends to the MHC/peptide surface presented for TCR recognition. Although these shifts in alpha3 may provide a synergistic modulation of affinity, the binding of CD8 to MHC is clearly consistent with an avidity-based contribution from CD8 to TCR-peptide-MHC interactions.
9605330 | Assembly and crystallization of the complex between the human T cell coreceptor CD8alpha homodimer and HLA-A2. A strategy for overexpression in Escherichia coli of the extracellular immunoglobulin domain of human CD8alpha was devised using codon usage alterations in the 5' region of the gene, designed so as to prevent the formation of secondary structures in the mRNA. A fragment of CD8alpha, comprising residues 1-120 of the mature protein, excluding the signal peptide and the membrane-proximal stalk region, was recovered from bacterial inclusion bodies and refolded to produce a single species of homodimeric, soluble receptor. HLA-A2 heavy chain, beta2-microglobulin and a synthetic peptide antigen corresponding to the pol epitope from HIV-1 were also expressed in E. coli, refolded and purified. CD8alpha/HLA-A2 complexes were formed in solution and by co-crystallization with a stoichiometry of one CD8alpha alpha dimer to one HLA-A2-peptide unit.
10706736 | In vitro priming with adenovirus/gp100 antigen-transduced dendritic cells reveals the epitope specificity of HLA-A*0201-restricted CD8+ T cells in patients with melanoma. Replication-deficient recombinant adenovirus (Ad) encoding human gp100 or MART-1 melanoma Ag was used to transduce human dendritic cells (DC) ex vivo as a model system for cancer vaccine therapy. A second generation E1/E4 region deleted Ad which harbors the CMV immediate-early promoter/enhancer and a unique E4-ORF6/pIX chimeric gene was employed as the backbone vector. We demonstrate that human monocyte-derived DC are permissive to Ad infection at multiplicity of infection between 100 and 500 and occurs independent of the coxsackie Ad receptor. Fluorescent-labeled Ad was used to assess the kinetics and distribution of viral vector within DC. Ad-transduced DC show peak transgene expression at 24-48 h and expression remains detectable for at least 7 days. DC transduced with replication-deficient Ad do not exhibit any unusual phenotypic characteristics or cytopathic effects. DC transduced with Ad2/gp100v2 can elicit tumor-specific CTL in vitro from patients bearing gp100+ metastatic melanoma. Using a panel of gp100-derived synthetic peptides, we show that Ad2/gp100v2-transduced DC elicit Ag-specific CTL that recognize only the G209 and G280 epitopes, both of which display relatively short half-lives ( approximately 7-8 h) on the surface of HLA-A*0201+ cells. Thus, patients with metastatic melanoma are not tolerant to gp100 Ag based on the detection of CD8+ T cells specific for multiple HLA-A*0201-restricted, gp100-derived epitopes.
10802168 | Simple method to identify bacteriocin induction peptides and to auto-induce bacteriocin production at low cell density. The production of some bacteriocins by lactic acid bacteria is regulated by induction peptides (IPs) that are secreted by a dedicated secretion system. The IP gene cbaX, for carnobacteriocin A production by Carnobacterium piscicola LV17A, and a presumptive IP gene (orf6), associated with the genetic locus for enterocin B production in Enterococcus faecium BFE 900, were fused to the signal peptide of the bacteriocin divergicin A from Carnobacterium divergens LV13 to access the general secretory pathway. The culture supernatants of C. piscicola UAL26 and Lactococcus lactis MG1363 containing either of these constructs were used to induce bacteriocin production by Bac(-) cultures of C. piscicola LV17A or E. faecium CTC492. The cbaX fusion product induced bacteriocin production by Bac(-) C. piscicola LV17A, but the orf6 fusion product did not induce bacteriocin production by E. faecium CTC492. This represents a relatively simple method of confirming the role of presumptive IPs. The transformation of C. piscicola LV17A with the CbaX gene under expression of the P32 promoter from L. lactis resulted in constitutive production of bacteriocin by either the dedicated transport apparatus or the general secretory pathway.
11078608 | Stem cell factor and IL-2 act synergistically in inducing intraepithelial lymphocyte proliferation and cytokine production: upregulation of the IL-2 receptor gamma-chain and signaling via JAK-3. Murine intraepithelial lymphocytes (IEL) that express the gamma/delta form of the T cell receptor for antigen (TCRgammadelta) also express c-kit, the receptor for stem cell factor (SCF). We show here that SCF upregulates the expression of gammadelta TCR on IEL. More importantly, SCF induces upregulation in the expression of the common gamma-chain (gammac), which is a shared subunit of the receptor complexes for IL-2, -4, -7, -9, and -15. SCF was shown to act synergistically with IL-2 in inducing IEL proliferation, IFNgamma production, non-MHC-restricted cytotoxic activity, and upregulation of the expression of the gammac. SCF also acted synergistically with IL-7 and IL-15 in inducing IEL proliferation. IEL exposed to SCF were shown to have enhanced phosphorylation of JAK-3, and when SCF was combined with IL-2, there was an enhancement in the phosphorylation of JAK-3. These results suggest that SCF may play a more important role in regulating mucosal immune responses than previously appreciated.
11520814 | Targeting Janus kinase 3 to attenuate the severity of acute graft-versus-host disease across the major histocompatibility barrier in mice. To prevent the development of acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) in lethally irradiated C57BL/6 (H-2b) recipient mice transplanted with bone marrow-splenocyte grafts from major histocompatibility complex (MHC) disparate BALB/c mice (H-2d), recipient mice were treated with the rationally designed JAK3 inhibitor WHI-P131 [4-(4'-hydroxyphenyl)-amino-6,7-dimethoxyquinazoline] (20 mg/kg, 3 times a day [tid]) daily from the day of bone marrow transplantation (BMT) until the end of the 85-day observation period. Total body irradiation (TBI)-conditioned, vehicle-treated control C57BL/6 mice (n = 38) receiving bone marrow-splenocyte grafts from BALB/c mice survived acute TBI toxicity, but they all developed histologically confirmed severe multi-organ GVHD and died after a median survival time of 37 days. WHI-P131 treatment (20 mg/kg intraperitoneally, tid) prolonged the median survival time of the BMT recipients to 56 days. The probability of survival at 2 months after BMT was 11% +/- 5% for vehicle-treated control mice (n = 38) and 41% +/- 9% for mice treated with WHI-P131 (n = 32) (P <.0001). Notably, the combination regimen WHI-P131 plus the standard anti-GVHD drug methotrexate (MTX) (10 mg/m2 per day) was more effective than WHI-P131 or MTX alone. More than half the C57BL/6 recipients receiving this most effective GVHD prophylaxis remained alive and healthy throughout the 85-day observation period, with a cumulative survival probability of 70% +/- 10%. Taken together, these results indicate that targeting JAK3 in alloreactive donor lymphocytes with a chemical inhibitor such as WHI-P131 may attenuate the severity of GVHD after BMT.
11981413 | Allochimeric class I MHC protein-induced tolerance by partial TCR engagement requires activation of both CTL4- and common gamma-chain-dependent cytokine signals. BACKGROUND: The various toxicities associated with the general immune suppression resulting from current clinical immunosuppressive therapies continue to plague transplant recipients as well as jeopardize allograft survival. METHODS: The present study utilized allochimeric class I MHC antigens (alpha1hu70-77-RT1.Aa) bearing only four donor RT1.Au polymorphic amino acids (a.a.; His70, Val73, Asn74, and Asn77) superimposed on the recipient RT1.Aa background to induce transplantation tolerance in the rat cardiac transplant model. RESULTS: Oral delivery of alpha1hu70-77-RT1.Aa protein alone (days 0-6) induced tolerance, as evidenced by inhibition of both acute and chronic rejection processes. Delivery of alpha1hu70-77-RT1.Aa with therapeutic doses of cyclosporine (CsA) also prevented chronic rejection, otherwise readily developed after treatment with CsA alone. A polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based analysis showed that tolerant recipients had reduced numbers of interleukin (IL)-2/interferon (IFN)-gamma-producing T helper (Th)1 cells and elevated numbers of IL-4/IL-10-producing Th2 cells. Adoptive transfer experiments revealed that potent regulatory T cells mediated tolerance. The same T cells displayed diminished T cell receptor (TCR)-driven signaling via extracellular regulated kinase, AP-1, and NF-kappaB, as well as the common gamma-chain (gammac) cytokine-receptor-induced signaling by Janus kinase 3 (Jak3)/stimulators and activators of transcription Stat/5 pathways. Tolerance induction was prevented in vivo by inhibition of signal 2 by CTL4Ig or of signal 3 by either rapamycin, which disrupts the mammalian target of rapamycin, or AG490, which inhibits Jak3. Finally, partial or complete tyrosine phosphorylation of Zap70 was observed in alloantigen-specific T cell clones in response to tolerogenic versus immunogenic peptides, respectively. CONCLUSIONS: Tolerance induction by allochimeric proteins is achieved by partial TCR activation in the presence of signals 2 and 3, resulting in a skewed Th2 phenotype.
12244147 | Differential functions of IL-4 receptor types I and II for dendritic cell maturation and IL-12 production and their dependency on GM-CSF. Little is known about the distinct roles of the two types of IL-4R on DC. Here we report that IL-4 and IL-13 are able to promote DC maturation, as evaluated by up-regulation of MHC class II and costimulatory molecules, when the concentration of GM-CSF is relatively lower than the dose of IL-4 or IL-13. In addition, under these conditions both cytokines enable DC to respond to maturation stimuli such as bacterial products or proinflammatory cytokines. Both IL-4 and IL-13 act synergistically with weak maturation stimuli such as TNF-alpha or CD40. The IL-4R signaling for DC maturation requires the IL-4R alpha-chain and STAT6, but not Janus kinase 3, indicating that IL-4R type II signaling is preferentially responsible for these effects. In contrast, the production of IL-12 p70, but not IL-10 and TNF, induced by microbial products was enhanced only by IL-4, not by IL-13 or Y119D, a selective type II IL-4R agonist, in vitro and in vivo. This enhancement was dependent on the presence of Janus kinase 3, indicating that this function is exclusively mediated by the type I IL-4R. In short, we discerned the individual roles of the two IL-4R types on DC function, showing that IL-4R type I promotes IL-12 secretion independently of GM-CSF concentration, while IL-4R type II promotes the up-regulation of MHC class II and costimulatory surface markers in a GM-CSF concentration-dependent manner.
12389628 | Treatment of post-bone marrow transplant acute graft-versus-host disease with a rationally designed JAK3 inhibitor. Here we show that the Janus kinase 3 (JAK3) inhibitor 4-(3'-hydroxyphenyl)-amino-6,7-dimethoxyquinazoline (JANEX-3) exhibits potent anti-GVHD activity and consequently improves the post-BMT survival outcome of C57BL/6 (H-2b) recipient mice transplanted with allogeneic bone marrow/splenocyte (BM/S) grafts from MHC disparate BALB/c mice (H-2d). One hundred percent of the vehicle-treated allograft recipients developed severe GVHD and died with a median survival of 41 days. Treatment of recipient mice with JANEX-3 (30 mg/kg/day, 3 x/day) after the onset of rapidly progressive severe GVHD in the 3rd week after BMT significantly improved the survival of BMT recipients with GVHD and prolonged the median survival time to 78 days (P < 0.0001, log-rank test). The probability of survival at two and three months post-BMT was 6 +/- 6% and 0 +/- 0% for vehicle-treated control mice and 100 +/- 0% and 38 +/- 17% for mice treated with JANEX-3. These results prompted the hypothesis that JAK3 plays a pivotal role in the pathophysiology of GVHD. To test this hypothesis, we examined if mice transplanted with allogeneic BM/S grafts from Jak3 knockout mice Jak3-/- develop GVHD. The allografts from (Jak3-/-) C57BL/6 (H-2b) mice rescued MHC-disparate recipient BALB/c mice (H-2d) of the lethal toxicity of TBI without causing fatal GVHD. Taken together, these observations establish JAK3 as a key mediator of severe GVHD after allogeneic BMT in the context of a major-HLA disparity.
12838324 | In vivo study of the GC90/IRIV vaccine for immune response and autoimmunity into a novel humanised transgenic mouse. Parathyroid hormone-related protein (PTH-rP), a secreted protein produced by prostate carcinoma and other epithelial cancers, is considered a key agent for the development of bone metastases. We investigated the construct GC90/IRIV, composed of immunopotentiating reconstituted influenza virosomes (IRIV) containing PTH-rP gene plasmids (GC90), as a potential tool for human anticancer immunotherapy into humanised mice transgenic for HLA-A(*)02.01, the human-beta2 microglobulin, and the human CD8alpha molecule. Intranasal administration of GC90/IRIV resulted in the induction of a PTH-rP-specific multiepitope cytotoxic T-cell (CTL) response. Cytotoxic T cells derived from vaccinated mice were capable of lysing in vitro syngenic murine PTH-rP transfectants and human HLA-A((*))02.01(+)/PTH-rP(+) prostate carcinoma LNCaP cells as well. The immune response capacity and the absence of any sign of toxicity and/or autoimmunity in vivo suggest the GC90/IRIV vaccine as a valid tool for active specific immunotherapy of human cancers and metastases overexpressing PTH-rP.
12960314 | In vitro generation and life span extension of human papillomavirus type 16-specific, healthy donor-derived CTL clones. Human papillomavirus (HPV) type 16 infection is strongly associated with the development of cervical carcinoma (CxCa) in women. The HPV16-derived oncoproteins E6 and E7, responsible for both onset and maintenance of malignant transformation, are expressed constitutively in CxCa cells and represent tumor-associated Ags. As a result, E6 and E7 constitute potential targets for adoptive CTL-mediated immunotherapy of CxCa. However, the availability to date of well-characterized HPV16-specific, CxCa-reactive human CTLs is extremely limited. The current study describes the in vitro generation and isolation of HPV16 E7-specific, CxCa-reactive human CTL clones from low-frequency healthy donor-derived CD8beta-positive precursors. For this purpose, an in vitro CTL induction protocol was used involving mature monocyte-derived dendritic cells as stimulator cells loaded with an HLA-A2.1-restricted, E7(11-20)-derived high-affinity altered peptide ligand. A double tetramer-guided isolation procedure and subsequent limiting-dilution cloning resulted in Ag-specific CTL clones. Stringent CTL characterization clearly indicated Ag-specific, HLA-A2.1-restricted reactivity against different HPV16-transformed CxCa cell lines. To allow expansion of E7(11-20)-specific CTL clones to numbers required for prolonged in vitro as well as in vivo application, their life span was significantly extended by ectopic expression of human telomerase reverse transcriptase. Collectively, our results show that optimized CTL induction and stringent CTL selection procedures, followed by human telomerase reverse transcriptase-mediated life span extension will allow continued availability of low-frequency HPV16-specific, CxCa-reactive human CTL clones. This may enhance the prospects of HPV16-specific adoptive CTL immunotherapy in CxCa patients.
16468034 | In vitro priming of tumor-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes using allogeneic dendritic cells derived from the human MUTZ-3 cell line. The adoptive transfer of in vitro-induced and expanded tumor-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) presents a promising immunotherapeutic approach for the treatment of cancer. The in vitro induction of tumor-reactive CTL requires repeated stimulation of CTL precursors with dendritic cells (DC). To circumvent problems like scarcity of blood DC precursors and donor variability, it would be attractive to use DC from a non-autologous, unlimited source. DCs derived from the human acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cell line MUTZ-3 are attractive candidates since these DCs closely resemble monocyte-derived DC (MoDC) in terms of phenotype and T cell stimulatory capacity. Here we demonstrate that functional CTL clones could be generated against multiple tumor-associated antigens, i.e., human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT), ErbB3-binding protein-1 (Ebp1), carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and Her-2/neu, by stimulating CD8beta(+) CTL precursors with peptide-loaded allogeneic, HLA-A2-matched MUTZ-3-derived DC. A consistent induction capacity, as determined by MHC tetramer-binding, was found in multiple donors and comparable to autologous peptide-loaded MoDC. Functional characterization at the clonal level revealed the priming of CTL that recognized endogenously processed epitopes on tumor cell lines in an HLA-A2-restricted fashion. Our data indicate that MUTZ-3-derived DC can be used as stimulator cells for in vitro priming and expansion of functional TAA-specific effector CTL. MUTZ-3-derived DCs thus represent a ready and standardized source of allogeneic DC to generate CTL for therapeutic adoptive transfer strategies.
16818755 | CD8 alpha coreceptor to improve TCR gene transfer to treat melanoma: down-regulation of tumor-specific production of IL-4, IL-5, and IL-10. Therapeutic success of TCR gene transfer to treat tumors depends on the ability of redirected T cells to become activated upon tumor recognition in vivo. Help provided by tumor-specific Th1 cells is reported to relieve T cells from an anergized state and to induce tumor regression. We recently demonstrated the ability to generate melanoma-specific Th1 cells by genetic introduction of both a CD8-dependent TCR and the CD8alpha coreceptor into CD4+ T cells. In this study, we analyzed a TCR that binds Ag independently of CD8, a property generally preferred to induce tumor-specific T cell responses, and addressed the contribution of CD8alpha following introduction into TCR-transduced CD4+ T cells. To this end, primary human CD4+ T cells were gene transferred with a high-avidity TCR, and were shown not only to bind peptide/MHC class I, but also to effectively kill Ag-positive tumor cells in the absence of CD8alpha. The introduction of CD8alpha up-regulates the tumor-specific production of TNF-alpha and IL-2 to some extent, but significantly down-regulates production of IL-4, IL-5, and IL-10 in CD4+ T cells. The introduction of a mutated cysteine motif in CD8alpha, which prevents its binding to LCK and linker for activation of T cells, did not adversely affect expression and T cell cytotoxicity, but counteracted the CD8alpha-mediated down-regulation of IL-4 and IL-5, but not IL-10. In conclusion, CD8alpha down-regulates the production of major Th2-type cytokines, in part mediated by LCK and/or linker for activation of T cells, and may induce differentiation of tumor-specific Th1 cells, which makes this coreceptor an interesting candidate to improve the clinical potential of TCR gene transfer to treat cancer.
16847108 | Novel replication-incompetent adenoviral B-group vectors: high vector stability and yield in PER.C6 cells. Adenoviral vectors based on adenovirus type 35 (rAd35) have the advantage of low natural vector immunity and induce strong, insert-specific T- and B-cell responses, making them prime-candidate vaccine carriers. However, severe vector-genome instability of E1-deleted rAd35 vectors was observed, hampering universal use. The instability of E1-deleted rAd35 vector proved to be caused by low pIX expression induced by removal of the pIX promoter, which was located in the E1B region of B-group viruses. Reinsertion of a minimal pIX promoter resulted in stable vectors able to harbour large DNA inserts (> 5 kb). In addition, it is shown that replacement of the E4-Orf6 region of Ad35 by the E4-Orf6 region of Ad5 resulted in successful propagation of an E1-deleted rAd35 vector on existing E1-complementing cell lines, such as PER.C6 cells. The ability to produce these carriers on PER.C6 contributes significantly to the scale of manufacturing of rAd35-based vaccines. Next, a stable rAd35 vaccine was generated carrying Mycobacterium tuberculosis antigens Ag85A, Ag85B and TB10.4. The antigens were fused directly, resulting in expression of a single polyprotein. This vaccine induced dose-dependent CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell responses against multiple antigens in mice. It is concluded that the described improvements to the rAd35 vector contribute significantly to the further development of rAd35 carriers for mass-vaccination programmes for diseases such as tuberculosis, AIDS and malaria.
16926293 | Differences in the frequency and function of HHV8-specific CD8 T cells between asymptomatic HHV8 infection and Kaposi sarcoma. It is unclear how the immune response controls human herpesvirus 8 (HHV8; also known as Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpesvirus [KSHV]) replication and thereby prevents Kaposi sarcoma (KS). We compared CD8 T-cell responses to HHV8 latent (K12) and lytic (glycoprotein B, ORF6, ORF61, and ORF65) antigens in patients who spontaneously controlled the infection and in patients with posttransplantation, AIDS-related, or classical KS. We found that anti-HHV8 responses were frequent, diverse, and strongly differentiated toward an effector phenotype in patients who controlled the infection. Conversely, HHV8-specific CD8 cells were very rare in patients who progressed to KS, and were not recruited to the tumoral tissue, as visualized by in situ tetramer staining of KS biopsies. Last, HHV8-specific CD8 T cells were observed in a seronegative recipient of an HHV8infected graft who remained persistently aviremic and antibody negative, suggesting that specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) may provide protection from persistent HHV8 infection. These results support the crucial role of cellular immune responses in controlling HHV8 replication, in preventing malignancies in latently infected subjects, and in conferring genuine resistance to persistent infection. They may also have important implications for the design of prophylactic and therapeutic HHV8 vaccines, and for adoptive immunotherapy of KS.
17250935 | Novel adenovirus vaccine vectors based on the enteric-tropic serotype 41. Replication-defective adenovirus vectors, primarily developed from serotype 5 (Ad5) viruses, have been widely used for gene transfer and vaccination approaches. Vectors based on other serotypes of adenovirus could be used in conjunction with, or in place of, Ad5 vectors. In this study, Ad41, an enteric adenovirus usually described as 'non-cultivable' or 'fastidious,' has been successfully cloned, rescued and propagated on 293-ORF6 cells. The complementation capabilities of this cell line allow generation of Ad41 vectors at titers comparable to those obtained for Ad5 vectors. Mice immunized with an Ad41 vector containing an HIV envelope (Env) gene mounted anti-Env cellular and humoral immune responses. Ad41-Env vectors appear to be particularly attractive when used in heterologous prime-boost regimens, where they induce significantly higher cellular immune responses to HIV-Env than Ad5-based regimens. Ad41-based constructs are attractive vaccine vectors alone or in combination with Ad5 adenovectors, since each vector type can provide circumvention of pre-existing immunity to the other.
19265143 | MHC class I/peptide transfer between dendritic cells overcomes poor cross-presentation by monocyte-derived APCs that engulf dying cells. In vivo data suggest that monocytes participate critically in cross-presentation, but other data suggest that lymph node resident dendritic cells (DCs) mainly cross-present. Here, we utilized a three-dimensional model of a blood vessel wall that endogenously supports DC development from human monocytes, and we incorporated dying autologous cells in the subendothelial matrix of the model. Flu-infected dying cells promoted monocytes to become mature DCs and cross-present cell-associated Ags for the activation of CTLs. Similar responses were induced by loading the dying cells with the TLR7/8 ligand ssRNA, whereas dying cells loaded with TLR3 ligand were less efficient. Monocyte-derived DCs that developed in this model cross-presented Ag to T cells efficiently regardless of whether they engulfed detectable amounts of labeled dying cells. Unexpectedly, the monocyte-derived cells that directly engulfed dying cells in vitro were not the major APCs stimulating CD8(+) lymphocytes. Instead, bystander DCs acquired more robust capacity to cross-prime through receipt of MHC class I/peptide from the phagocytic, monocyte-derived cells. In mice, lymph node-homing monocyte-derived DCs processed Ags from engulfed cells and then transferred MHC class I/peptide complexes to confer cross-priming capacity to MHC class I-deficient lymph node resident CD8alpha(+) DCs. Thus, natural or synthetic TLR7/8 agonists contained within dying cells promote the conversion of monocytes to DCs with capacity for cross-presentation and for \cross-dressing\ other DCs. These data reveal a way in which migratory monocyte-derived DCs and other DCs, like lymph node resident DCs, both mediate cross-presentation.
20053740 | Two kinetic patterns of epitope-specific CD8 T-cell responses following murine gammaherpesvirus 68 infection. Murine gammaherpesvirus 68 (gammaHV68) provides an important experimental model for understanding mechanisms of immune control of the latent human gammaherpesviruses. Antiviral CD8 T cells play a key role throughout three separate phases of the infection: clearance of lytic virus, control of the latency amplification stage, and prevention of reactivation of latently infected cells. Previous analyses have shown that T-cell responses to two well-characterized epitopes derived from ORF6 and ORF61 progress with distinct kinetics. ORF6(487)-specific cells predominate early in infection and then decline rapidly, whereas ORF61(524)-specific cells continue to expand through early latency, due to sustained epitope expression. However, the paucity of identified epitopes to this virus has limited our understanding of the overall complexities of CD8 T-cell immune control throughout infection. Here we screened 1,383 predicted H-2(b)-restricted peptides and identified 33 responses, of which 21 have not previously been reported. Kinetic analysis revealed a spectrum of T-cell responses based on the rapidity of their decline after the peak acute response that generally corresponded to the expression patterns of the two previously characterized epitopes. The slowly declining responses that were maintained during latency amplification proliferated more rapidly and underwent maturation of functional avidity over time. Furthermore, the kinetics of decline was accelerated following infection with a latency-null mutant virus. Overall, the data show that gammaHV68 infection elicits a highly heterogeneous CD8 T-cell response that segregates into two distinctive kinetic patterns controlled by differential epitope expression during the lytic and latency amplification stages of infection.
22071967 | Cross-presentation of tumour antigens by human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived CD141(+)XCR1+ dendritic cells. Monocyte-derived dendritic cells (moDC) have been widely used in cancer immunotherapy but show significant donor-to-donor variability and low capacity for the cross-presentation of tumour-associated antigens (TAA) to CD8(+) T cells, greatly limiting the success of this approach. Given recent developments in induced pluripotency and the relative ease with which induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cell lines may be generated from individuals, we have succeeded in differentiating dendritic cells (DC) from human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-A(*)0201(+) iPS cells (iPS cell-derived DC (ipDC)), using protocols compliant with their subsequent clinical application. Unlike moDC, a subset of ipDC was found to coexpress CD141 and XCR1 that have been shown previously to define the human equivalent of mouse CD8alpha(+) DC, in which the capacity for cross-presentation has been shown to reside. Accordingly, ipDC were able to cross-present the TAA, Melan A, to a CD8(+) T-cell clone and stimulate primary Melan A-specific responses among naive T cells from an HLA-A(*)0201(+) donor. Given that CD141(+)XCR1(+) DC are present in peripheral blood in trace numbers that preclude their clinical application, the ability to generate a potentially unlimited source from iPS cells offers the possibility of harnessing their capacity for cross-priming of cytotoxic T lymphocytes for the induction of tumour-specific immune responses.
22120524 | Role of JAK3 in myogenic differentiation. Skeletal muscle differentiation is regulated by transcription factors, including members of the myogenic regulatory factor (MRF) family and many signaling pathways. The JAK1 and JAK2 pathways are known to each have different effects on myoblast proliferation and differentiation; however, the role of JAK3 in myoblast differentiation remains unclear. In this study, we investigated the effect of JAK3 inhibition on myogenic differentiation in the C2C12 mouse myoblast cell line. During myogenic differentiation, treatment with the JAK3 inhibitor WHIp154 significantly increased the number of MHC-positive multinucleated myotubes and the expressions of myosin heavy chain (MHC), myogenin (MGN), MyoD, and myogenic enhancer factor 2 (MEF2). Knockdown of the JAK3 gene using siJAK3 also significantly increased MHC, MGN and MyoD mRNA expressions as well as insulin-like growth factor-II (IGF-II) gene expression. During differentiation, JAK3 was initially activated and later decreased. Differentiation decreased STAT1, which was further decreased by WHIp154. In contrast, STAT3 gradually was elevated during differentiation, and was increased by JAK3 inhibition. Moreover, we found that up-regulation of AKT activity and down-regulation of ERK activity cooperated to accelerate myogenic differentiation. Taken together, these data indicate that JAK3 inhibition potently facilitates myoblast differentiation through antagonistic STAT1/STAT3 activities. Additionally, JAK3 inhibition induced precocious differentiation and played important roles for terminal differentiation, including fusion, which is involved with regulation of AKT and ERK pathways.
24603870 | In vivo administration of a JAK3 inhibitor during acute SIV infection leads to significant increases in viral load during chronic infection. The studies reported herein are the first to document the effect of the in vivo administration of a JAK3 inhibitor for defining the potential role of NK cells during acute SIV infection of a group of 15 rhesus macaques (RM). An additional group of 16 MHC/KIR typed RM was included as controls. The previously optimized in vivo dose regimen (20 mg/kg daily for 35 days) led to a marked depletion of each of the major NK cell subsets both in the blood and gastro-intestinal tissues (GIT) during acute infection. While such depletion had no detectable effects on plasma viral loads during acute infection, there was a significant sustained increase in plasma viral loads during chronic infection. While the potential mechanisms that lead to such increased plasma viral loads during chronic infection remain unclear, several correlates were documented. Thus, during acute infection, the administration of the JAK3 inhibitor besides depleting all NK cell subsets also decreased some CD8+ T cells and inhibited the mobilization of the plasmacytoid dendritic cells in the blood and their localization to the GIT. Of interest is the finding that the administration of the JAK3 inhibitor during acute infection also resulted in the sustained maintenance during chronic infection of a high number of naive and central memory CD4+ T cells, increases in B cells in the blood, but decreases in the frequencies and function of NKG2a+ NK cells within the GIT and blood, respectively. These data identify a unique role for JAK3 inhibitor sensitive cells, that includes NK cells during acute infection that in concert lead to high viral loads in SIV infected RM during chronic infection without affecting detectable changes in antiviral humoral/cellular responses. Identifying the precise mechanisms by which JAK3 sensitive cells exert their influence is critical with important implications for vaccine design against lentiviruses.
24614195 | Tapasin modification on the intracellular epitope HBcAg18-27 enhances HBV-specific CTL immune response and inhibits hepatitis B virus replication in vivo. HBV-specific cytotoxic T-lymphocyte (CTL) activity has a very important role in hepatitis B virus clearance. Present studies suggest that Tapasin, a endoplasmic reticulum (ER) chaperone, stabilizes the peptide-receptive MHC I conformation, allowing peptide exchange and increasing more peptides to be translocated into the ER. We have previously testified that cytoplasmic transduction peptide (CTP)-HBcAg(18-27)-Tapasin fusion protein could enter cytoplasm of dendritic cells, and enhance T cells' response to generate specific CTLs efficiently in vitro. In the present study, we evaluated specific immune responses of CTP-HBcAg(18-27)-Tapasin fusion protein in HLA-A2 transgenic mice (H-2K(b)) and anti-viral ability in HBV transgenic mice, and explored the mechanisms probably involved in. The studies showed that CTP-HBcAg(18-27)-Tapasin not only increased production of cytokine IFN-gamma and interleukin-2 (IL-2), compared with CTP-HBcAg(18-27), HBcAg(18-27)-Tapasin, and PBS, but also significantly induced the higher percentages of IFN-gamma+CD8(+) T cells and specific CTL responses in HLA-A2 transgenic mice. Moreover, enhancement of specific CTL activity induced by the fusion protein reduced HBV DNA and hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) levels and decreased the expression of HBsAg and hepatitis B core antigen (HBcAg) in liver tissue of HBV transgenic mice. In addition, CTP-HBcAg(18-27)-Tapasin could upregulate the expression of JAK2, Tyk2, STAT1, and STAT4 in T lymphocytes in HLA-A2 transgenic mice splenocytes. However, there was no significant difference on the expressions of JAK1, JAK3, and STAT6 between each group. In conclusion, CTP-HBcAg(18-27)-Tapasin fusion protein could enhance not only the percentages of CTLs but also induce robust specific CTL activity and inhibits hepatitis B virus replication in vivo, which was associated with activation of the JAK/STAT signaling pathway.
24957906 | A genome-wide association study identifies a functional ERAP2 haplotype associated with birdshot chorioretinopathy. Birdshot chorioretinopathy (BSCR) is a rare form of autoimmune uveitis that can lead to severe visual impairment. Intriguingly, >95% of cases carry the HLA-A29 allele, which defines the strongest documented HLA association for a human disease. We have conducted a genome-wide association study in 96 Dutch and 27 Spanish cases, and 398 unrelated Dutch and 380 Spanish controls. Fine-mapping the primary MHC association through high-resolution imputation at classical HLA loci, identified HLA-A*29:02 as the principal MHC association (odds ratio (OR) = 157.5, 95% CI 91.6-272.6, P = 6.6 x 10(-74)). We also identified two novel susceptibility loci at 5q15 near ERAP2 (rs7705093; OR = 2.3, 95% CI 1.7-3.1, for the T allele, P = 8.6 x 10(-8)) and at 14q32.31 in the TECPR2 gene (rs150571175; OR = 6.1, 95% CI 3.2-11.7, for the A allele, P = 3.2 x 10(-8)). The association near ERAP2 was confirmed in an independent British case-control samples (combined meta-analysis P = 1.7 x 10(-9)). Functional analyses revealed that the risk allele of the polymorphism near ERAP2 is strongly associated with high mRNA and protein expression of ERAP2 in B cells. This study further defined an extremely strong MHC risk component in BSCR, and detected evidence for a novel disease mechanism that affects peptide processing in the endoplasmic reticulum. 
25198529 | TCR+CD4-CD8- T cells in antigen-specific MHC class I-restricted T-cell responses after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Human TCRalphabeta(+) CD4(-)CD8(-) double-negative (DN) T cells represent a minor subset in peripheral blood, yet are important in infectious diseases and autoimmune responses. We examined the frequency of DN T cells in 17 patients after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (aHSCT) at 1, 2, 3, 6, and 12 months post-aHSCT and show that these cells increase early after aHSCT and decrease with time after aHSCT. DN T cells reside in the terminally differentiated effector (CD45RA(+)CCR7(-)) T-cell population and are polyclonal, determined by T-cell receptor Vbeta CDR3 analysis. Gene expression analysis of ex vivo sorted DN T cells showed a distinct set of gene expression, including interleukin-8, as compared with CD4(+) or CD8(+) T cells. DN T cells contributed to MHC class I-restricted EBV-directed immune responses, defined by antigen-specific cytokine production and by detection of HLA-A*02:01-restricted EBV BMLF-1 (GLCTLVAML), LMP-2A (CLGGLLTMV), and HLA-A*24:02-restricted EBV BRLF-1 (DYCNVLNKEF) and EBNA3 (RYSIFFDY)-specific T cells. We created retroviral-transfected Jurkat cell lines with a Melan-A/MART-1-specific TCR(+) and the CD8alpha chain to study TCR(+) DN T cells in response to their nominal MHC class I/peptide ligand. We show that DN T cells exhibit increased TCRzeta chain phosphorylation as compared with the TCR(+)CD8(+) transgenic T-cell line. DN T cells contribute to antigen-specific T-cell responses and represent an effector T-cell population that may be explored in immunotherapeutic approaches against viral infections or transformed cells.
25289687 | Human adenovirus-specific gamma/delta and CD8+ T cells generated by T-cell receptor transfection to treat adenovirus infection after allogeneic stem cell transplantation. Human adenovirus infection is life threatening after allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). Immunotherapy with donor-derived adenovirus-specific T cells is promising; however, 20% of all donors lack adenovirus-specific T cells. To overcome this, we transfected alpha/beta T cells with mRNA encoding a T-cell receptor (TCR) specific for the HLA-A*0101-restricted peptide LTDLGQNLLY from the adenovirus hexon protein. Furthermore, since allo-reactive endogenous TCR of donor T lymphocytes would induce graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) in a mismatched patient, we transferred the TCR into gamma/delta T cells, which are not allo-reactive. TCR-transfected gamma/delta T cells secreted low quantities of cytokines after antigen-specific stimulation, which were increased dramatically after co-transfection of CD8alpha-encoding mRNA. In direct comparison with TCR-transfected alpha/beta T cells, TCR-CD8alpha-co-transfected gamma/delta T cells produced more tumor necrosis factor (TNF), and lysed peptide-loaded target cells as efficiently. Most importantly, TCR-transfected alpha/beta T cells and TCR-CD8alpha-co-transfected gamma/delta T cells efficiently lysed adenovirus-infected target cells. We show here, for the first time, that not only alpha/beta T cells but also gamma/delta T cells can be equipped with an adenovirus specificity by TCR-RNA electroporation. Thus, our strategy offers a new means for the immunotherapy of adenovirus infection after allogeneic HSCT. 
25935001 | Epigenetic regulation of differential HLA-A allelic expression levels. MHC class I expression levels influence the strength of immune responses and represent another variable in determining outcome to disease beyond peptide binding alone. Identification of the HLA loci that vary in allelic expression levels and delineating the mechanism responsible for expression variation may provide the opportunity to modify their expression therapeutically. We have examined the expression levels of allelic lineages at the HLA-A locus in a sample of 216 European Americans using a real-time polymerase chain reaction assay, which amplifies all HLA-A lineages specifically with equal efficiency, and observed a gradient of expression that associates with HLA-A allelic lineage (R = 0.6, P = 5 x 10(-25)). DNA methylation of the HLA-A gene appears to contribute to the variation in HLA-A mRNA expression levels, as a significant inverse correlation was observed between HLA-A mRNA expression levels in untreated cells and the degree to which expression is increased after treatment of the cells with a DNA methyltransferase inhibitor (R = 0.6, P = 2.8 x 10(-6)). Further, deep-sequencing and immunoprecipitation assays revealed allelic lineage-specific methylation patterns within the HLA-A promoter region where increased DNA methylation levels correlated significantly with reduced HLA-A expression levels (R = 0.89, P = 3.7 x 10(-9)). These data demonstrate HLA-A allelic lineage-specific variation in expression levels, and DNA methylation as a likely factor in contributing to this variation. 
29031612 | Variants at HLA-A, HLA-C, and HLA-DQB1 Confer Risk of Psoriasis Vulgaris in Japanese. Psoriasis vulgaris (PsV) is an autoimmune disease of skin and joints with heterogeneity in epidemiologic and genetic landscapes of global populations. We conducted an initial genome-wide association study and a replication study of PsV in the Japanese population (606 PsV cases and 2,052 controls). We identified significant associations of the single nucleotide polymorphisms with PsV risk at TNFAIP3-interacting protein 1and the major histocompatibility complex region (P = 3.7 x 10-10 and 6.6 x 10-15, respectively). By updating the HLA imputation reference panel of Japanese (n = 908) to expand HLA gene coverage, we fine-mapped the HLA variants associated with PsV risk. Although we confirmed the PsV risk of HLA-C*06:02 (odds ratio = 6.36, P = 0.0015), its impact was relatively small compared with those in other populations due to rare allele frequency in Japanese (0.4% in controls). Alternatively, HLA-A*02:07, which corresponds to the cysteine residue at HLA-A amino acid position 99 (HLA-A Cys99), demonstrated the most significant association with PsV (odds ratio = 4.61, P = 1.2 x 10-10). In addition to HLA-A*02:07 and HLA-C*06:02, stepwise conditional analysis identified an independent PsV risk of HLA-DQbeta1 Asp57 (odds ratio = 2.19, P = 1.9 x 10-6). Our PsV genome-wide association study in Japanese highlighted the genetic architecture of PsV, including the identification of HLA risk variants.
30626427 | A rare population of tumor antigen-specific CD4+CD8+ double-positive alphabeta T lymphocytes uniquely provide CD8-independent TCR genes for engineering therapeutic T cells. BACKGROUND: High-affinity tumor antigen-specific T-cell receptor (TCR) gene is required to engineer potent T cells for therapeutic treatment of cancer patients. However, discovery of suitable therapeutic TCR genes is hampered by the fact that naturally occurring tumor antigen-specific TCRs are generally of low-affinity, and artificial modification of TCRs can mediate cross-reactivity to other antigens expressed in normal tissues. Here, we discovered a naturally occurring T-cell clone which expressed high-affinity HLA-A*02:01 (A*02)-restricted TCR against NY-ESO-1 from a patient who had NY-ESO-1-expressing ovarian tumor. METHODS: A*02-restricted NY-ESO-1-specific T-cell clones were established from peripheral blood of patients who had NY-ESO-1-expressing ovarian tumors. TCR alpha and beta chain genes were retrovirally transduced into polyclonally activated T cells. Phenotype and function of the parental and TCR-transduced T cells were analyzed by flow cytometry, ELISA and cytotoxicity assay. In vivo therapeutic efficacy was investigated in a xenograft model using NOD/SCID/IL-2Rgamma-deficient (NSG) mice. RESULTS: A rare population of NY-ESO-1-specific T cells, which we named 19305DP, expressed cell surface CD4, CD8alpha, and CD8beta but not CD56 and recognized A*02+NY-ESO-1+ cancer cell lines in a CD4- and CD8-independent manner. 19305DP showed a gene expression profile that is consistent with a mixed profile of CD4+ and CD8+ single-positive T cells. Both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells that were retrovirally transduced with 19305DP-derived TCR gene (19305DP-TCR) showed strong reactivity against A*02+NY-ESO-1+ cancer cells, whereas TCR genes from the conventional A*02-restricted NY-ESO-1-specific CD8+ single-positive T-cell clones functioned only in CD8+ T cells. Both 19305DP-TCR gene-engineered CD4+ and CD8+ T cells eliminated A*02+NY-ESO-1+ tumor xenografts in NSG mice. Finally, based on reactivity against a series of alanine-substituted peptides and a panel of normal human tissue-derived primary cells, 19305DP-TCR was predicted to have no cross-reactivity against any human non-NY-ESO-1 proteins. CONCLUSION: Together, our results indicate that the naturally occurring 19305DP-TCR derived from CD4+CD8+ double-positive alphabeta T cells, is a promising therapeutic TCR gene for effective and safe adoptive T-cell therapy in A*02+ patients with NY-ESO-1-expressing tumor.
31921215 | ORF6 and ORF61 Expressing MVA Vaccines Impair Early but Not Late Latency in Murine Gammaherpesvirus MHV-68 Infection. Gammaherpesviruses (gammaHV) are important pathogens causing persistent infections which lead to several malignancies in immunocompromised patients. Murine gammaHV 68 (MHV-68), a homolog to human EBV and KSHV, has been employed as a classical pathogen to investigate the molecular pathogenicity of gammaHV infections. gammaHV express distinct antigens during lytic or latent infection and antigen-specific T cells have a significant role in controlling the acute and latent viral infection, although the quality of anti-viral T cell responses required for protective immunity is not well-understood. We have generated recombinant modified vaccinia virus Ankara (recMVA) vaccines via MVA-BAC homologous recombination technology expressing MHV-68 ORF6 and ORF61 antigens encoding both MHC class I and II-restricted epitopes. After vaccination, we examined T cell responses before and after MHV-68 infection to determine their involvement in latent virus control. We show recognition of recMVA- and MHV-68-infected APC by ORF6 and ORF61 epitope-specific T cell lines in vitro. The recMVA vaccines efficiently induced MHV-68-specific CD8+ and CD4+ T cell responses after a single immunization and more pronounced after homologous prime/boost vaccination in mice. Moreover, we exhibit protective capacity of prophylactic recMVA vaccination during early latency at day 17 after intranasal challenge with MHV-68, but failed to protect from latency at day 45. Further T cell analysis indicated that T cell exhaustion was not responsible for the lack of protection by recMVA vaccination in long-term latency at day 45. The data support further efforts aiming at improved vaccine development against gammaHV infections with special focus on targeting protective CD4+ T cell responses.
32022317 | TEG011 persistence averts extramedullary tumor growth without exerting off-target toxicity against healthy tissues in a humanized HLA-A*24:02 transgenic mice. gammadeltaT cells play an important role in cancer immunosurveillance and are able to distinguish malignant cells from their healthy counterparts via their gammadeltaTCR. This characteristic makes gammadeltaT cells an attractive candidate for therapeutic application in cancer immunotherapy. Previously, we have identified a novel CD8alpha-dependent tumor-specific allo-HLA-A*24:02-restricted Vgamma5Vdelta1TCR with potential therapeutic value when used to engineer alphabetaT cells from HLA-A*24:02 harboring individuals. alphabetaT cells engineered to express this defined Vgamma5Vdelta1TCR (TEG011) have been suggested to recognize spatial changes in HLA-A*24:02 present selectively on tumor cells but not their healthy counterparts. However, in vivo efficacy and toxicity studies of TEG011 are still limited. Therefore, we extend the efficacy and toxicity studies as well as the dynamics of TEG011 in vivo in a humanized HLA-A*24:02 transgenic NSG (NSG-A24:02) mouse model to allow the preparation of a first-in-men clinical safety package for adoptive transfer of TEG011. Mice treated with TEG011 did not exhibit any graft-versus-host disease-like symptoms and extensive analysis of pathologic changes in NSG-A24:02 mice did not show any off-target toxicity of TEG011. However, loss of persistence of TEG011 in tumor-bearing mice was associated with the outgrowth of extramedullary tumor masses as also observed for mock-treated mice. In conclusion, TEG011 is well tolerated without harming HLA-A*24:02+ expressing healthy tissues, and TEG011 persistence seems to be crucial for long-term tumor control in vivo.
32289779 | Vaccination of Mice with Listeria ivanovii Expressing the Truncated M Protein of Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome Virus Induces both Antigen-Specific CD4+ and CD8+ T Cell-Mediated Immunity. Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome (PRRS), a serious disease of swine caused by the PRRS virus (PRRSV), had a severe economic impact worldwide. As commonly used PRRS vaccines, the attenuated or inactivated vaccines, provide unsatisfactory immune protection, a new PRRS vaccine is urgently needed. In this study, a part of the PRRSV ORF6 gene (from 253 to 519 bp) encoding the hydrophilic domain of PRRSV M protein was integrated into two Listeria strains via homologous recombination to generate two PRRS vaccine candidates, namely LI-M' and LM-DeltaactAplcB-M'. Both candidate vaccines showed similar growth rate as their parent strains in culture media, but presented different bacterial loads in target organs. As the integrated heterogenous gene was not expressed, LM-DeltaactAplcB-M' was excluded from the immunological test. In a mouse model, LI-M' provoked both CD4+ and CD8+ T cell-mediated immunity. In addition, LI-M' boosting dramatically enhanced CD8+ T cell-mediated immunity without affecting the response intensity of CD4+ T cell-mediated immunity. All of these data suggest that LI-M' is a promising PRRS vaccine candidate.
33343569 | The JAK1 Selective Inhibitor ABT 317 Blocks Signaling Through Interferon-gamma and Common gamma Chain Cytokine Receptors to Reverse Autoimmune Diabetes in NOD Mice. Cytokines that signal through the JAK-STAT pathway, such as interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and common gamma chain cytokines, contribute to the destruction of insulin-secreting beta cells by CD8+ T cells in type 1 diabetes (T1D). We previously showed that JAK1/JAK2 inhibitors reversed autoimmune insulitis in non-obese diabetic (NOD) mice and also blocked IFN-gamma mediated MHC class I upregulation on beta cells. Blocking interferons on their own does not prevent diabetes in knockout NOD mice, so we tested whether JAK inhibitor action on signaling downstream of common gamma chain cytokines, including IL-2, IL-7 IL-15, and IL-21, may also affect the progression of diabetes in NOD mice. Common gamma chain cytokines activate JAK1 and JAK3 to regulate T cell proliferation. We used a JAK1-selective inhibitor, ABT 317, to better understand the specific role of JAK1 signaling in autoimmune diabetes. ABT 317 reduced IL-21, IL-2, IL-15 and IL-7 signaling in T cells and IFN-gamma signaling in beta cells, but ABT 317 did not affect GM-CSF signaling in granulocytes. When given in vivo to NOD mice, ABT 317 reduced CD8+ T cell proliferation as well as the number of KLRG+ effector and CD44hiCD62Llo effector memory CD8+ T cells in spleen. ABT 317 also prevented MHC class I upregulation on beta cells. Newly diagnosed diabetes was reversed in 94% NOD mice treated twice daily with ABT 317 while still on treatment at 40 days and 44% remained normoglycemic after a further 60 days from discontinuing the drug. Our results indicate that ABT 317 blocks common gamma chain cytokines in lymphocytes and interferons in lymphocytes and beta cells and are thus more effective against diabetes pathogenesis than IFN-gamma receptor deficiency alone. Our studies suggest use of this class of drug for the treatment of type 1 diabetes.
33395585 | XBP1s repression regulates Kupffer cell polarization leading to immune suppressive effects protecting liver allograft in rats. BACKGROUND: Polarized kupffer cells (KCs) influence the immune response after liver transplantation. We report an undiscovered immune regulatory role of X-box binding protein 1 (XBP1) on immune function of kupffer cells (KCs). METHODS: Acute rejection model using rats. RESULTS: We found that suppression of XBP1s in lipopolysaccharide (LPS) -activated KCs could increase the expression of arginase-1 (Arg-1) and CD204 but also decrease the expression levels of MHC-II and CD40 and shift the phenotype markers of KCs toward M2 via the janus kinase (JAK) 3- Signal Transducer And Activator Of Transcription (STAT) 6 pathway, presenting an immunosuppressive function by enhancing anti-inflammatory cytokine secretion and accelerating apoptosis of activated T cells. XBP1s over-expression in KCs shift the phenotype markers on KCs towards M1 via the JAK1-STAT1 pathway and have shown a strong pro-inflammatory property. Down-regulation of XBP1s in KCs changed the phenotype and cytokine secretion profile towards M2 and markedly protected the function and structure of allograft liver, prolonging the recipient's survival compared with control and normal saline groups in rats. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings reveal a novel regulatory mechanism of XBP1 in an induced immuno-suppressive state to protect rat's liver allograft via JAK-STAT mediated KCs polarization.
34407341 | Pan-Sarbecovirus Neutralizing Antibodies in BNT162b2-Immunized SARS-CoV-1 Survivors. Emerging severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) variants of concern pose a challenge to the effectiveness of current vaccines. A vaccine that could prevent infection caused by known and future variants of concern as well as infection with pre-emergent sarbecoviruses (i.e., those with potential to cause disease in humans in the future) would be ideal. Here we provide data showing that potent cross-clade pan-sarbecovirus neutralizing antibodies are induced in survivors of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 1 (SARS-CoV-1) infection who have been immunized with the BNT162b2 messenger RNA (mRNA) vaccine. The antibodies are high-level and broad-spectrum, capable of neutralizing not only known variants of concern but also sarbecoviruses that have been identified in bats and pangolins and that have the potential to cause human infection. These findings show the feasibility of a pan-sarbecovirus vaccine strategy. (Funded by the Singapore National Research Foundation and National Medical Research Council.).
34759930 | Adding Help to an HLA-A*24:02 Tumor-Reactive gammadeltaTCR Increases Tumor Control. gammadeltaT cell receptors (gammadeltaTCRs) recognize a broad range of malignantly transformed cells in mainly a major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-independent manner, making them valuable additions to the engineered immune effector cell therapy that currently focuses primarily on alphabetaTCRs and chimeric antigen receptors (CARs). As an exception to the rule, we have previously identified a gammadeltaTCR, which exerts antitumor reactivity against HLA-A*24:02-expressing malignant cells, however without the need for defined HLA-restricted peptides, and without exhibiting any sign of off-target toxicity in humanized HLA-A*24:02 transgenic NSG (NSG-A24:02) mouse models. This particular tumor-HLA-A*24:02-specific Vgamma5Vdelta1TCR required CD8alphaalpha co-receptor for its tumor reactive capacity when introduced into alphabetaT cells engineered to express a defined gammadeltaTCR (TEG), referred to as TEG011; thus, it was only active in CD8+ TEG011. We subsequently explored the concept of additional redirection of CD4+ T cells through co-expression of the human CD8alpha gene into CD4+ and CD8+ TEG011 cells, later referred as TEG011_CD8alpha. Adoptive transfer of TEG011_CD8alpha cells in humanized HLA-A*24:02 transgenic NSG (NSG-A24:02) mice injected with tumor HLA-A*24:02+ cells showed superior tumor control in comparison to TEG011, and to mock control groups. The total percentage of mice with persisting TEG011_CD8alpha cells, as well as the total number of TEG011_CD8alpha cells per mice, was significantly improved over time, mainly due to a dominance of CD4+CD8+ double-positive TEG011_CD8alpha, which resulted in higher total counts of functional T cells in spleen and bone marrow. We observed that tumor clearance in the bone marrow of TEG011_CD8alpha-treated mice associated with better human T cell infiltration, which was not observed in the TEG011-treated group. Overall, introduction of transgenic human CD8alpha receptor on TEG011 improves antitumor reactivity against HLA-A*24:02+ tumor cells and further enhances in vivo tumor control.
35453523 | Molecular Basis for Paradoxical Activities of Polymorphonuclear Neutrophils in Inflammation/Anti-Inflammation, Bactericide/Autoimmunity, Pro-Cancer/Anticancer, and Antiviral Infection/SARS-CoV-II-Induced Immunothrombotic Dysregulation. Polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PMNs) are the most abundant white blood cells in the circulation. These cells act as the fast and powerful defenders against environmental pathogenic microbes to protect the body. In addition, these innate inflammatory cells can produce a number of cytokines/chemokines/growth factors for actively participating in the immune network and immune homeostasis. Many novel biological functions including mitogen-induced cell-mediated cytotoxicity (MICC) and antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC), exocytosis of microvesicles (ectosomes and exosomes), trogocytosis (plasma membrane exchange) and release of neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) have been successively discovered. Furthermore, recent investigations unveiled that PMNs act as a double-edged sword to exhibit paradoxical activities on pro-inflammation/anti-inflammation, antibacteria/autoimmunity, pro-cancer/anticancer, antiviral infection/COVID-19-induced immunothrombotic dysregulation. The NETs released from PMNs are believed to play a pivotal role in these paradoxical activities, especially in the cytokine storm and immunothrombotic dysregulation in the recent SARS-CoV-2 pandemic. In this review, we would like to discuss in detail the molecular basis for these strange activities of PMNs.
35739510 | A promising Prognostic risk model for advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) with immune-related genes. BACKGROUND: Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is a third most common tumor of the urinary system. Nowadays, Immunotherapy is a hot topic in the treatment of solid tumors, especially for those tumors with pre-activated immune state. METHODS: In this study, we downloaded genomic and clinical data of RCC samples from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. Four immune-related genetic signatures were used to predict the prognosis of RCC by Cox regression analysis. Then we established a prognostic risk model consisting of the genes most related to prognosis from four signatures to value prognosis of the RCC samples via Kaplan-Meier (KM) survival analysis. An independent data from International Cancer Genome Consortium (ICGC) database were used to test the predictive stability of the model. Furthermore, we performed landscape analysis to assess the difference of gene mutant in the RCC samples from TCGA. Finally, we explored the correlation between the selected genes and the level of tumor immune infiltration via Tumor Immune Estimation Resource (TIMER) platform. RESULTS: We used four genetic signatures to construct prognostic risk models respectively and found that each of the models could divide the RCC samples into high- and low-risk groups with significantly different prognosis, especially in advanced RCC. A comprehensive prognostic risk model was constructed by 8 candidate genes from four signatures (HLA-B, HLA-A, HLA-DRA, IDO1, TAGAP, CIITA, PRF1 and CD8B) dividing the advanced RCC samples from TCGA database into high-risk and low-risk groups with a significant difference in cancer-specific survival (CSS). The stability of the model was verified by independent data from ICGC database. And the classification efficiency of the model was stable for the samples from different subgroups. Landscape analysis showed that mutation ratios of some genes were different between two risk groups. In addition, the expression levels of the selected genes were significantly correlated with the infiltration degree of immune cells in the advanced RCC. CONCLUSIONS: Sum up, eight immune-related genes were screened in our study to construct prognostic risk model with great predictive value for the prognosis of advanced RCC, and the genes were associated with infiltrating immune cells in tumors which have potential to conduct personalized treatment for advanced RCC.
36496055 | Identification of Reduced ERAP2 Expression and a Novel HLA Allele as Components of a Risk Score for Susceptibility to Liver Injury Due to Amoxicillin-Clavulanate. BACKGROUND & AIMS: Drug-induced liver injury (DILI) due to amoxicillin-clavulanate (AC) has been associated with HLA-A*02:01, HLA-DRB1*15:01, and rs2476601, a missense variant in PTPN22. The aim of this study was to identify novel risk factors for AC-DILI and to construct a genetic risk score (GRS). METHODS: Transcriptome-wide association study and genome-wide association study analyses were performed on 444 AC-DILI cases and 10,397 population-based controls of European descent. Associations were confirmed in a validation cohort (n = 133 cases and 17,836 population-based controls). Discovery and validation AC-DILI cases were also compared with 1358 and 403 non-AC-DILI cases. RESULTS: Transcriptome-wide association study revealed a significant association of AC-DILI risk with reduced liver expression of ERAP2 (P = 3.7 x 10-7), coding for an aminopeptidase involved in antigen presentation. The lead eQTL single nucleotide polymorphism, rs1363907 (G), was associated with AC-DILI risk in the discovery (odds ratio [OR], 1.68; 95% CI, 1.23-1.66; P = 1.7 x 10-7) and validation cohorts (OR, 1.2; 95% CI, 1.04-2.05; P = .03), following a recessive model. We also identified HLA-B*15:18 as a novel AC-DILI risk factor in both discovery (OR, 4.19; 95% CI, 2.09-8.36; P = 4.9 x 10-5) and validation (OR, 7.78; 95% CI, 2.75-21.99; P = .0001) cohorts. GRS, incorporating rs1363907, rs2476601, HLA-B*15:18, HLA-A*02:01, and HLA-DRB1*15:01, was highly predictive of AC-DILI risk when cases were analyzed against both general population and non-AC-DILI control cohorts. GRS was the most significant predictor in a regression model containing known AC-DILI clinical risk characteristics and significantly improved the predictive model. CONCLUSIONS: We identified novel associations of AC-DILI risk with ERAP2 low expression and with HLA-B*15:18. GRS based on the 5 risk variants may assist AC-DILI causality assessment and risk management.
37795024 | Association between HLA alleles and beta-lactam antibiotics-related severe cutaneous adverse reactions. Introduction: Beta-lactam antibiotics are one of the most common causes of antibiotics-related severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCARs) including Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), drug reactions with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS), and acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP). Recent evidence demonstrated that the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) polymorphisms play important roles in the development of drug-related SCARs. This study aimed to extensively characterize the associations between HLA genetic polymorphisms and several phenotypes of SCARs related to beta-lactam antibiotics. Methods: Thirty-one Thai patients with beta-lactam antibiotics-related SCARs were enrolled in the study. A total of 183 unrelated native Thai subjects without any evidence of drug allergy were recruited as the control group. Genotyping of HLA class I and class II alleles was performed. Results: Six HLA alleles including HLA-A*01:01, HLA-B*50:01, HLA-C*06:02, HLA-DRB1*15:01, HLA-DQA1*03:01, and HLA-DQB1*03:02, were significantly associated with beta-lactam antibiotics-related SCARs. The highest risk of SCARs was observed in patients with the HLA-B*50:01 allele (OR = 12.6, 95% CI = 1.1-142.9, p = 0.042), followed by the HLA-DQB1*03:02 allele (OR = 5.8, 95% CI = 1.5-22.0, p = 0.012) and the HLA-C*06:02 allele (OR = 5.7, 95% CI = 1.6-19.9, p = 0.011). According to the phenotypes of SCARs related to beta-lactam antibiotics, the higher risk of SJS/TEN was observed in patients with HLA-A*03:02, HLA-B*46:02 (OR = 17.5, 95% CI = 1.5-201.6, p = 0.033), HLA-A*02:06, HLA-B*57:01 (OR = 9.5, 95% CI = 1.3-71.5, p = 0.028), HLA-DQB1*03:02 (OR = 7.5, 95% CI = 1.8-30.9, p = 0.008), or HLA-C*06:02 (OR = 4.9, 95% CI = 1.1-21.4, p = 0.008). While eight HLA alleles including HLA-A*02:05, HLA-A*02:11, HLA-B*37:01, HLA-B*38:01, HLA-B*50:01, HLA-C*06:02, HLA-C*03:09, and HLA-DRB1*15:01 were associated with AGEP, the highest risk of AGEP was observed in patients with the HLA-B*50:01 allele (OR = 60.7, 95% CI = 4.8-765.00, p = 0.005). Among the four HLA alleles associated with DRESS including HLA-C*04:06, HLA-DRB1*04:05, HLA-DRB1*11:01, and HLA-DQB1*04:01, the HLA-C*04:06 allele had the highest risk of beta-lactam antibiotics-related DRESS (OR = 60.0, 95% CI = 3.0-1202.1, p = 0.043). However, these associations did not achieve statistical significance after Bonferroni's correction. Apart from the HLA risk alleles, the HLA-A*02:07 allele appeared to be a protective factor against beta-lactam antibiotic-related SCARs (OR = 0.1, 95% CI = 0.0-0.5, p = 3.7 x 10-4, Pc = 0.012). Conclusion: This study demonstrated the candidate HLA alleles that are significantly associated with several phenotypes of beta-lactam antibiotics-related SCARs. However, whether the HLA alleles observed in this study can be used as valid genetic markers for SCARs related to beta-lactam antibiotics needs to be further explored in other ethnicities and larger cohort studies.
38100550 | Prediction and identification of HLA-A*0201-restricted epitopes from cancer testis antigen CT23. Cancer-testis antigen CT23 is a class of tumor-associated antigens (TAA) characterized by restricted expression in male germ cells and a variety of tumor tissues. Numerous studies have shown that CT23 is closely related to tumor cell viability, proliferation, metastasis and invasion. CT23 is immunogenic and can cause specific immune response in tumor patients. Therefore, it is considered to be one of the best target antigens for designing therapeutic tumor vaccines and T-cell-mediated tumor immunotherapy. In this study, we initially obtained seven HLA-A*0201-restricted CT23 epitope candidate peptides through the T cell epitope prediction program. Subsequently, a T2 cell binding assay revealed the potential binding of all candidate peptides with HLA-A2 molecules. Notably, peptide P7 (ALLVLCYSI) exhibited the highest affinity, as evidenced by a fluorescence index (FI) of 2.19. Dendritic cells (DCs) loaded with CT23 candidate peptide can stimulate CD8+T cell activation and proliferation, and compared with other candidate peptides, candidate peptide P7 is superior. The cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) stimulated by the peptide P7 had killing effect on tumor cells (HLA-A*0201+, CT23+), but no killing effect on tumor cells (HLA-A*0201-, CT23+). The CTLs induced by the peptide P7 also had a specific killing effect on T2 cells bearing the peptide P7. In summary, our findings suggest that the CT23 peptide P7 (ALLVLCYSI) can induce immune responses and holds potential for tumor-specific CTL therapy.
38114231 | Autologous engineered T cell receptor therapy in advanced cancer. To overcome challenges associated with adoptive cell therapy (ACT), we developed a personalized autologous T-cell therapy program. Patients with advanced cancer with HLA-A *02:01 allele and tumor expression of PRAME, MAGEA1, MAGEA4, MAGEA8, NY-ESO-1, COL6A3 exon 6, MXRA5, and/or MMP1 underwent leukapheresis and T-cell product manufacturing. Patients received lymphodepletion, IMA101 infusion and interleukin 2 for 14 days. Of 214 screened patients, 14 were treated (6, IMA101; 8, IMA101 and atezolizumab). The most common adverse events were cytokine release syndrome (G1, n = 6; G2, n = 4) and cytopenia. At 6 weeks, 12 (85.7%) patients had stable disease. Three patients had prolonged disease stabilization for 12.9, 7.3, and 13.7 months, respectively. The median progression-free survival and overall survival were 3.4 months and 9.4 months, respectively. Target-specific T cells expanded to constitute up to 78.7% of CD8+ cells. In conclusion, IMA101 was feasible and well tolerated, leveraging the potential of multi-targeted ACT that warrants further investigation.
38127299 | Identification of novel canonical and cryptic HCMV-specific T-cell epitopes for HLA-A*03 and HLA-B*15 via peptide-PRISM. ABSTRACT: Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) reactivation poses a substantial risk to patients receiving tranplants. Effective risk stratification and vaccine development is hampered by a lack of HCMV-derived immunogenic peptides in patients with common HLA-A*03:01 and HLA-B*15:01 haplotypes. This study aimed to discover novel HCMV immunogenic peptides for these haplotypes by combining ribosome sequencing (Ribo-seq) and mass spectrometry with state-of-the-art computational tools, Peptide-PRISM and Probabilistic Inference of Codon Activities by an EM Algorithm. Furthermore, using machine learning, an algorithm was developed to predict immunogenicity based on translational activity, binding affinity, and peptide localization within small open reading frames to identify the most promising peptides for in vitro validation. Immunogenicity of these peptides was subsequently tested by analyzing peptide-specific T-cell responses of HCMV-seropositive and -seronegative healthy donors as well as patients with transplants. This resulted in the direct identification of 3 canonical and 1 cryptic HLA-A*03-restricted immunogenic peptides as well as 5 canonical and 1 cryptic HLA-B*15-restricted immunogenic peptide, with a specific interferon gamma-positive (IFN-gamma+)/CD8+ T-cell response of >=0.02%. High T-cell responses were detected against 2 HLA-A*03-restricted and 3 HLA-B*15-restricted canonical peptides with frequencies of up to 8.77% IFN-gamma+/CD8+ T cells in patients after allogeneic stem cell transplantation. Therefore, our comprehensive strategy establishes a framework for efficient identification of novel immunogenic peptides from both existing and novel Ribo-seq data sets.
38195212 | Identification of a spike-specific CD8+ T cell epitope following vaccination against the Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus in humans. Licensed vaccines against the Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV), an emerging pathogen of concern, are lacking. The Modified Vaccinia virus Ankara vector-based vaccine MVA-MERS-S, expressing the MERS-CoV-spike glycoprotein (MERS-S), is one of three candidate vaccines in clinical development and elicits robust humoral and cellular immunity. Here, we identified for the first time a MERS-S-specific CD8+ T-cell epitope in an HLA-A*03:01/HLA-B*35:01-positive vaccinee using a screening assay, intracellular cytokine staining, and in silico epitope prediction. As evidence from MERS-CoV infection suggests a protective role of long-lasting CD8+ T-cell responses, the identification of epitopes will facilitate longitudinal analyses of vaccine-induced T-cell immunity.
38214610 | Development of a New Off-the-Shelf Plasmacytoid Dendritic Cell-Based Approach for the Expansion and Characterization of SARS-CoV-2-Specific T Cells. Global vaccination against COVID-19 has been widely successful; however, there is a need for complementary immunotherapies in severe forms of the disease and in immunocompromised patients. Cytotoxic CD8+ T cells have a crucial role in disease control, but their function can be dysregulated in severe forms of the disease. We report here a cell-based approach using a plasmacytoid dendritic cell line (PDC*line) to expand in vitro specific CD8+ responses against COVID-19 Ags. We tested the immunogenicity of eight HLA-A*02:01 restricted peptides derived from diverse SARS-Cov-2 proteins, selected by bioinformatics analyses in unexposed and convalescent donors. Higher ex vivo frequencies of specific T cells against these peptides were found in convalescent donors compared with unexposed donors, suggesting in situ T cell expansion upon viral infection. The peptide-loaded PDC*line induced robust CD8+ responses with total amplification rates that led up to a 198-fold increase in peptide-specific CD8+ T cell frequencies for a single donor. Of note, six of eight selected peptides provided significant amplifications, all of which were conserved between SARS-CoV variants and derived from the membrane, the spike protein, the nucleoprotein, and the ORF1ab. Amplified and cloned antiviral CD8+ T cells secreted IFN-gamma upon peptide-specific activation. Furthermore, specific TCR sequences were identified for two highly immunogenic Ags. Hence, PDC*line represents an efficient platform to identify immunogenic viral targets for future immunotherapies.
38239352 | MediMer: a versatile do-it-yourself peptide-receptive MHC class I multimer platform for tumor neoantigen-specific T cell detection. Peptide-loaded MHC class I (pMHC-I) multimers have revolutionized our capabilities to monitor disease-associated T cell responses with high sensitivity and specificity. To improve the discovery of T cell receptors (TCR) targeting neoantigens of individual tumor patients with recombinant MHC molecules, we developed a peptide-loadable MHC class I platform termed MediMer. MediMers are based on soluble disulfide-stabilized beta2-microglobulin/heavy chain ectodomain single-chain dimers (dsSCD) that can be easily produced in large quantities in eukaryotic cells and tailored to individual patients' HLA allotypes with only little hands-on time. Upon transient expression in CHO-S cells together with ER-targeted BirA biotin ligase, biotinylated dsSCD are purified from the cell supernatant and are ready to use. We show that CHO-produced dsSCD are free of endogenous peptide ligands. Empty dsSCD from more than 30 different HLA-A,B,C allotypes, that were produced and validated so far, can be loaded with synthetic peptides matching the known binding criteria of the respective allotypes, and stored at low temperature without loss of binding activity. We demonstrate the usability of peptide-loaded dsSCD multimers for the detection of human antigen-specific T cells with comparable sensitivities as multimers generated with peptide-tethered beta2m-HLA heavy chain single-chain trimers (SCT) and wild-type peptide-MHC-I complexes prior formed in small-scale refolding reactions. Using allotype-specific, fluorophore-labeled competitor peptides, we present a novel dsSCD-based peptide binding assay capable of interrogating large libraries of in silico predicted neoepitope peptides by flow cytometry in a high-throughput and rapid format. We discovered rare T cell populations with specificity for tumor neoepitopes and epitopes from shared tumor-associated antigens in peripheral blood of a melanoma patient including a so far unreported HLA-C*08:02-restricted NY-ESO-1-specific CD8+ T cell population. Two representative TCR of this T cell population, which could be of potential value for a broader spectrum of patients, were identified by dsSCD-guided single-cell sequencing and were validated by cognate pMHC-I multimer staining and functional responses to autologous peptide-pulsed antigen presenting cells. By deploying the technically accessible dsSCD MHC-I MediMer platform, we hope to significantly improve success rates for the discovery of personalized neoepitope-specific TCR in the future by being able to also cover rare HLA allotypes.
38240239 | Identification and relative abundance of naturally presented and cross-reactive influenza A virus MHC class I-restricted T cell epitopes. Cytotoxic T lymphocytes are key for controlling viral infection. Unravelling CD8+ T cell-mediated immunity to distinct influenza virus strains and subtypes across prominent HLA types is relevant for combating seasonal infections and emerging new variants. Using an immunopeptidomics approach, naturally presented influenza A virus-derived ligands restricted to HLA-A*24:02, HLA-A*68:01, HLA-B*07:02, and HLA-B*51:01 molecules were identified. Functional characterization revealed multifunctional memory CD8+ T cell responses for nine out of sixteen peptides. Peptide presentation kinetics was optimal around 12 h post infection and presentation of immunodominant epitopes shortly after infection was not always persistent. Assessment of immunogenic epitopes revealed that they are highly conserved across the major zoonotic reservoirs and may contain a single substitution in the vicinity of the anchor residues. These findings demonstrate how the identified epitopes promote T cell pools, possibly cross-protective in individuals and can be potential targets for vaccination.
38410446 | CD4+ and CD8+ T cells are required to prevent SARS-CoV-2 persistence in the nasal compartment. SARS-CoV-2 is the causative agent of COVID-19 and continues to pose a significant public health threat throughout the world. Following SARS-CoV-2 infection, virus-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T cells are rapidly generated to form effector and memory cells and persist in the blood for several months. However, the contribution of T cells in controlling SARS-CoV-2 infection within the respiratory tract are not well understood. Using C57BL/6 mice infected with a naturally occurring SARS-CoV-2 variant (B.1.351), we evaluated the role of T cells in the upper and lower respiratory tract. Following infection, SARS-CoV-2-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T cells are recruited to the respiratory tract and a vast proportion secrete the cytotoxic molecule Granzyme B. Using antibodies to deplete T cells prior to infection, we found that CD4+ and CD8+ T cells play distinct roles in the upper and lower respiratory tract. In the lungs, T cells play a minimal role in viral control with viral clearance occurring in the absence of both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells through 28 days post-infection. In the nasal compartment, depletion of both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, but not individually, results in persistent and culturable virus replicating in the nasal compartment through 28 days post-infection. Using in situ hybridization, we found that SARS-CoV-2 infection persisted in the nasal epithelial layer of tandem CD4+ and CD8+ T cell-depleted mice. Sequence analysis of virus isolates from persistently infected mice revealed mutations spanning across the genome, including a deletion in ORF6. Overall, our findings highlight the importance of T cells in controlling virus replication within the respiratory tract during SARS-CoV-2 infection.
38490580 | Selective pressure mediated by influenza virus M158-66 epitope-specific CD8+T cells promotes accumulation of extra-epitopic amino acid substitutions associated with viral resistance to these T cells. Influenza viruses are notorious for their capacity to evade host immunity. Not only can they evade recognition by virus-neutralizing antibodies, there is also evidence that they accumulate mutations in epitopes recognized by virus-specific CD8+T cells. In addition, we have shown previously that human influenza A viruses were less well recognized than avian influenza viruses by CD8+T cells directed to the highly conserved, HLA-A*02:01 restricted M158-66 epitope located in the Matrix 1 (M1) protein. Amino acid differences at residues outside the epitope were responsible for the differential recognition, and it was hypothesized that this reflected immune adaptation of human influenza viruses to selective pressure exerted by M158-66-specific CD8+T cells in the human population. In the present study, we tested this hypothesis and investigated if selective pressure exerted by M158-66 epitope-specific CD8+T cells could drive mutations at the extra-epitopic residues in vitro. To this end, isogenic influenza A viruses with the M1 gene of a human or an avian influenza virus were serially passaged in human lung epithelial A549 cells that transgenically express the HLA-A*02:01 molecule or not, in the presence or absence of M158-66 epitope-specific CD8+T cells. Especially in the virus with the M1 gene of an avian influenza virus, variants emerged with mutations at the extra-epitopic residues associated with reduced recognition by M158-66-specific T cells as detected by Next Generation Sequencing. Although the emergence of these variants was observed in the absence of selective pressure exerted by M158-66 epitope-specific CD8+T cells, their proportion was much larger in the presence of this selective pressure.
38575714 | Human leukocyte antigen variants associate with BNT162b2 mRNA vaccine response. BACKGROUND: Since the beginning of the anti-COVID-19 vaccination campaign, it has become evident that vaccinated subjects exhibit considerable inter-individual variability in the response to the vaccine that could be partly explained by host genetic factors. A recent study reported that the immune response elicited by the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine in individuals from the United Kingdom was influenced by a specific allele of the human leukocyte antigen gene HLA-DQB1. METHODS: We carried out a genome-wide association study to investigate the genetic determinants of the antibody response to the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine in an Italian cohort of 1351 subjects recruited in three centers. Linear regressions between normalized antibody levels and genotypes of more than 7 million variants was performed, using sex, age, centers, days between vaccination boost and serological test, and five principal components as covariates. We also analyzed the association between normalized antibody levels and 204 HLA alleles, with the same covariates as above. RESULTS: Our study confirms the involvement of the HLA locus and shows significant associations with variants in HLA-A, HLA-DQA1, and HLA-DQB1 genes. In particular, the HLA-A*03:01 allele is the most significantly associated with serum levels of anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibodies. Other alleles, from both major histocompatibility complex class I and II are significantly associated with antibody levels. CONCLUSIONS: These results support the hypothesis that HLA genes modulate the response to Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine and highlight the need for genetic studies in diverse populations and for functional studies aimed to elucidate the relationship between HLA-A*03:01 and CD8+ cell response upon Pfizer-BioNTech vaccination.
11418651 | Memory T cells constitute a subset of the human CD8+CD45RA+ pool with distinct phenotypic and migratory characteristics. Using HLA class I-viral epitope tetramers to monitor herpes virus-specific CD8(+) T cell responses in humans, we have shown that a significant fraction of responding cells revert from a CD45RO(+) to a CD45RA(+) state after priming. All tetramer-binding CD45RA(+) cells, regardless of epitope specificity, expressed a phenotype LFA-1(high)CCR7(low) that was stable for at least 10 years in infectious mononucleosis patients and indefinitely in asymptomatic carriers. CD8(+)CD45RA(+)LFA-1(high) cells were not present in cord blood but in adults account for up to 50% of CD8(+)CD45RA(+) cells. These CD45RA(+)LFA-1(high) cells have significantly shorter telomeres than CD45RA(+)LFA-1(low) cells, suggesting that the latter represent a naive population, while the former are memory cells. CD45RA(+) memory cells are a stable population of noncycling cells, but on stimulation they are potent producers of IFN-gamma, while naive CD8(+) cells produce only IL-2. The chemokine receptor profile and migratory potential of CD45RA(+) memory cells is very similar to CD45RO(+) cells but different to naive CD8 cells. In accord with this, CD45RA(+) memory cells were significantly underrepresented in lymph nodes, but account for virtually all CD8(+)CD45RA(+) T cells in peripheral tissues of the same individuals.
11429112 | HIV-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes, HLA-A11, and chemokine-related factors may act synergistically to determine HIV resistance in CCR5 delta32-negative female sex workers in Chiang Rai, northern Thailand. Understanding how highly HIV-exposed individuals remain HIV uninfected may be useful for HIV vaccine design and development of new HIV prevention strategies. To elucidate mechanisms associated with resistance to HIV infection, immunologic and genetic factors were examined in 14 HIV-exposed but persistently seronegative (HEPS) female sex workers from Chiang Rai, northern Thailand and in ethnically matched, HIV-positive (n = 9) and HIV-negative women (n = 9). The HEPS women were identified in a study of commercial sex workers who had an HIV-1 incidence of 20.3 per 100 person-years. A high frequency of HLA-A11 was observed in HEPS women (86%) compared with northern Thai controls (56%). HIV-specific cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) lytic responses were detected in cryopreserved peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), using HLA-A-matched subtype E HIV-1 peptides in four of seven (57%) HEPS women, eight of eight HIV-positive women, and zero of nine HIV-negative unexposed controls (p = 0.019 HEPS women vs. HIV-negative controls). CTL lysis levels were low, but responses were detected to peptides from Nef, Pol, Gag, and Env. Nef responses predominated in HEPS women. Compared with controls, HEPS women tended to have higher frequencies of CCR5 promotor 59402GG and SDF-1 3'UTR 801A genotypes known to influence HIV transmission or course of disease. HEPS women also had higher levels of spontaneous RANTES production by PBMCs than other groups. Each of these factors could potentially contribute to HIV resistance. As most HEPS women had one or more of these factors, they may prevent HIV infection synergistically by blocking HIV cell entry, delaying its dissemination, or killing HIV-infected cells.
11564593 | Immune dysfunction and immune restoration disease in HIV patients given highly active antiretroviral therapy. BACKGROUND: Some immune defects caused by HIV infection resolve following treatment with highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), but residual immune dysfunction may cause disease. Problems with the regulation of the restored immune system in the first six months of treatment can lead to atypical presentations of mycobacterial, cytomegalovirus (CMV), hepatitis B virus or hepatitis C virus (HCV) disease. We defined these conditions as immune restoration diseases (IRD) and showed that they occur in 30-40% of individuals who begin HAART from low CD4 T cell counts. OBJECTIVES: Analysis of immune dysregulation in patients who have responded to HAART. STUDY DESIGN: Patients with successful immune reconstitution following HAART were selected from a database containing details of all patients managed at Royal Perth Hospital (Western Australia) on the basis a CD4 T cell count <100/microl before HAART and an increase of >4-fold or to >200 CD4 T cells/microl. RESULTS: Patients who had experienced an IRD demonstrated increased levels of bioavailable IL-6 and increased expression of CCR5 and CCR3 on monocytes and granulocytes, but numbers of gammadeltaT-cells were similar to patients with similar CD4 T cell counts without an IRD. Carriage of HLA-A2, -B44 was associated with a history of CMV retinitis and/or encephalomyelitis as an IRD, but not with IRD initiated by Mycobacterium sp., cutaneous varicella zoster or herpes simplex infections or HCV. We also identified a patient with Graves' thyrotoxicosis and pronounced lymphadenopathy after HAART, and demonstrated that thyroid stimulating hormone receptor antibody production was associated with an increase in serum soluble CD30, suggesting acquired immune dysregulation. CONCLUSIONS: IRD are associated with persistent immune activation, where differences in genetic profiles suggest that distinct pathological mechanisms are responsible for retinitis/encephalomyelitis IRD. Further studies are important as dysregulated T-cell responses may cause disease later in the course of immune reconstitution.
12797544 | HBcAg-specific CD8 T cells play an important role in virus suppression, and acute flare-up is associated with the expansion of activated memory T cells. We analyzed the prevalence and longitudinal fluctuation of hepatitis B virus (HBV)-specific CD8 T cells in chronic HBV infection using an HLA-A2-HBc18-27 tetramer. Thirty-five HLA-A2-positive patients with chronic HBV infection were divided into 17 HBe antigen (HBeAg)-positive and 18 anti-HBe antibody (anti-HBe)-positive patients. Five HLA-A2-positive normal subjects, five HLA-A2-negative patients with chronic HBV infection, and two HLA-A2-positive patients with acute HBV infection were included as controls. HBc18-27-specific CD8 T cells (c18-27-CD8Ts) were detected at a significantly higher prevalence in patients with anti-HBe (6/18) than in those with HBeAg (1/17), and their frequency reached 0.28% of the total CD8 T cells. The prevalence was significantly higher in patients with HBV DNA below 4.0 log genome equivalents (LGE)/ml (5/12) than in those with HBV DNA above 4.0 LGE/ml (2/23). The frequency of c18-27-CD8Ts was consistently higher in liver-infiltrating lymphocytes, ranging from 0.18 to 1.28%, than in autologous peripheral blood lymphocytes. Longitudinal analysis of patients with acute flare-up demonstrated that the elevation of alanine aminotransferase (ALT) was intimately associated with the expansion of c18-27-CD8Ts. Phenotypic analysis revealed that most c18-27-CD8Ts during acute flare-up expressed HLA-DR and CCR5, while those during low-ALT periods showed low expression. Furthermore, most liver-infiltrating c18-27-CD8Ts were positive for HLA-DR and CCR5, suggesting selective recruitment of activated c18-27-CD8Ts into the liver. In conclusion. HBV-specific CD8 T cells play an important role in the suppression of virus replication, and acute flare-up is associated with the expansion and activation of HBV-specific memory cells.
15166527 | Correlates of resistance to HIV-1 infection in homosexual men with high-risk sexual behaviour. OBJECTIVE: To investigate possible correlates of HIV resistance in participants from the Amsterdam Cohort of Homosexual men who have remained HIV seronegative despite high-risk sexual behaviour. DESIGN/METHODS: We studied in vitro HIV-1 susceptibility and adaptive and innate immunity in 29 high-risk seronegative (HRSN) and 15 HIV-negative pre-seroconversion (pre-SC) homosexual men from the same Amsterdam Cohort Study (ACS) who seroconverted to HIV-1 positive during active follow-up. Host genetics were compared between HRSN and HIV-positive ACS participants. RESULTS: We found lower in vitro susceptibility for a CCR5-using (R5) HIV-1 variant, higher RANTES production levels, but no difference in coreceptor expression in HRSN as compared with pre-SC controls. Reduced R5 in vitro susceptibility of two HRSN tested was restored to normal levels by addition of antibodies against beta-chemokines. A higher proportion of HRSN carried the SDF-1 3'A variant and HLA-A*11, A*31 and Cw*15 alleles. ELIspot analysis with HIV-1 peptide stimulation revealed low frequencies of HIV-1-specific CD8 interferon-gamma producing cytotoxic T cells in both HRSN and pre-SC controls. CONCLUSIONS: Low in vitro R5 susceptibility of cells from the HRSN men was due to beta-chemokine mediated inhibition of virus replication. The presence of HIV-1 specific cytotoxic T cells in both HRSN and pre-SC participants may signify exposure to the virus rather than protection from infection. Host genetic characteristics and other factors affecting innate immunity may contribute to differential resistance to HIV-1 infection among exposed seronegative individuals.
15385740 | Lack of associations between HLA class II alleles and resistance to HIV-1 infection among white, non-Hispanic homosexual men. HLA class II alleles were molecularly typed for 100 high-risk seronegative men and 184 low-risk seroconverters from the Multicenter AIDS Cohort Study (MACS). Seven resistant individuals homozygous for CCR5 Delta32 deletions were excluded from analysis. In the univariate analysis, no significant HLA class II associations with resistance/susceptibility to HIV type 1 infection were identified. However, the transporter associated with antigen presentation 2 (TAP2) Ala 665 variant associated with resistance in earlier analyses in the MACS was in linkage disequilibrium with some HLA class II alleles. After adjusting for the established associations with HLA-A*0205 subgroup and TAP2 Ala 665 variant, no HLA class II alleles were independently associated with resistance/susceptibility to HIV-1 infection. Other genetic factors in the HLA class II-TAP region of the major histocompatibility complex might be involved.
15972696 | Response of memory CD8+ T cells to severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) coronavirus in recovered SARS patients and healthy individuals. To date, the pathogenesis of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) in humans is still not well understood. SARS coronavirus (SARS-CoV)-specific CTL responses, in particular their magnitude and duration of postinfection immunity, have not been extensively studied. In this study, we found that heat-inactivated SARS-CoV elicited recall CTL responses to newly identified spike protein-derived epitopes (SSp-1, S978, and S1202) in peripheral blood of all HLA-A*0201(+) recovered SARS patients over 1 year postinfection. Intriguingly, heat-inactivated SARS-CoV elicited recall-like CTL responses to SSp-1 but not to S978, S1202, or dominant epitopes from several other human viruses in 5 of 36 (13.8%) HLA-A*0201(+) healthy donors without any contact history with SARS-CoV. SSp-1-specific CTLs expanded from memory T cells of both recovered SARS patients, and the five exceptional healthy donors shared a differentiated effector CTL phenotype, CD45RA(+)CCR7(-)CD62L(-), and expressed CCR5 and CD44. However, compared with the high avidity of SSp-1-specific CTLs derived from memory T cells of recovered SARS patients, SSp-1-specific CTLs from the five exceptional healthy donors were of low avidity, as determined by their rapid tetramer dissociation kinetics and reduced cytotoxic reactivity, IFN-gamma secretion, and intracellular production of IFN-gamma, TNF-alpha, perforin, and granzyme A. These results indicate that SARS-CoV infection induces strong and long-lasting CTL-mediated immunity in surviving SARS patients, and that cross-reactive memory T cells to SARS-CoV may exist in the T cell repertoire of a small subset of healthy individuals and can be reactivated by SARS-CoV infection.
16300869 | CpG oligodeoxynucleotides activate dendritic cells in vivo and induce a functional and protective vaccine immunity against a TERT derived modified cryptic MHC class I-restricted epitope. The use of synthetic peptides derived from tumor-associated Ags is attractive for the development of antitumoral vaccines as far as strong adjuvants are found to render them immunogenic. Here, we investigated the possibility to enhance the CD8 response against the human and mouse shared TERT(572Y) HLA-A*0201 restricted modified cryptic peptide by using ODN-CpG as adjuvant. Humanized transgenic mice were immunized with the TERT(572Y) modified cryptic peptide in the presence of ODN-CpG and compared to mice immunized in IFA. By contrast with IFA, we first showed that, in vivo, ODN-CpG leads to the recruitment of dendritic cells in the lymph nodes draining the injection site. Those cells and especially the CD11c+ CD11b- CD8a+ lymphoid and the CD11c+ B220+ plasmacytoid dendritic cells were activated as shown by up-regulation of CD40 at their cell surface. Immunization against TERT(572Y) peptide in the presence of ODN-CpG rather than IFA led to a strong CD8 response and can delayed mortality in an induced tumor model. Study of the CD8 response obtained after antigenic challenge suggested that a functional memory response is induced upon vaccination with ODN-CpG. Thus, MHC class I-restricted epitope in combination of ODN-CpG is a promising and rather simple cancer vaccine formulation.
18192109 | Wilms tumor gene WT1 peptide-based immunotherapy induced a minimal response in a patient with advanced therapy-resistant multiple myeloma. The product of the Wilms tumor gene, WT1, is a universal tumor antigen. We performed WT1 peptide-based immunotherapy for a patient with multiple myeloma (MM). This patient was a 57-year-old woman with chemotherapy-resistant MM (Bence Jones kappa type). The patient received weekly intradermal injections of an HLA-A*2402-restricted 9-mer WT1 peptide emulsified with Montanide ISA 51 adjuvant for 12 weeks and achieved a minimal response according to European Group for Blood and Marrow Transplantation criteria without experiencing systemic adverse effects. The proportion of myeloma cells in the bone marrow (BM) decreased from 85% to 25%, and the amount of M protein in the urine decreased from 3.6 to 0.6 g/day after WT1 vaccination. Furthermore, a bone scintigram showed an improvement after the vaccination. As for immunologic parameters, the frequency of WT1 tetramer-positive cells among CD8+ T-cells, which was higher than in healthy donors, temporarily decreased at weeks 4 and 8 but increased at week 12, whereas the frequency of WT1 peptide-responding CD107a/b+ cells among WT1 tetramer-positive T-cells increased from 27.0% to 38.6% after the vaccination. After WT1 vaccination, the frequency of CXCR4+ cells among WT1 tetramer-positive T-cells increased in the BM, where stromal cells expressed the ligand for CXCR4, stromal-derived factor 1 (SDF-1), but decreased in the peripheral blood (PB), implying that WT1-specific cytotoxic T-lymphocytes had migrated from the PB to the BM, a tumor site.
18408395 | Whole blood assays to identify Th1 cell antigens and peptides encoded by Mycobacterium tuberculosis-specific RD1 genes. OBJECTIVE: To identify Th1 cell-stimulating antigens/peptides encoded by the genes predicted in the Mycobacterium tuberculosis-specific genomic region of difference (RD)1, deleted in Mycobacterium bovis Bacille Calmette-Guerin(BCG), by using synthetic peptides and whole blood from tuberculosis (TB) patients. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Heparinized peripheral blood was obtained from culture-proven pulmonary TB patients (n = 16) attending the Chest Disease Hospital, Kuwait. Whole blood was diluted with tissue culture medium RPMI-1640 and tested for Th1 cell stimulation using antigen-induced proliferation and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) secretion assays. The antigens included a peptide pool of 220 peptides covering the sequence of 12 open reading frames (ORFs) of RD1 (RD1(mix)), peptide pools of RD1 ORF5 (ORF5(mix)), ORF6 (ORF6(mix)) and ORF7 (ORF7(mix)), and individual peptides of ORF6 (P6.1-P6.6) and ORF7 (P7.1-P7.6). M. tuberculosis culture filtrate, cell walls and whole-cell M. bovis BCG were used as complex mycobacterial antigens. The results obtained with different antigens and peptides were statistically analyzed for significant differences using Z test. RESULTS: The complex mycobacterial antigens (culture filtrate, cell walls and M.bovis BCG) and RD1(mix) induced comparable (p > 0.05) positive antigen-induced proliferation and IFN-gamma responses with whole blood from TB patients. However, the positive IFN-gamma responses induced by ORF6(mix) and ORF7(mix) were higher than ORF5(mix). Among the individual peptides, P6.4 and P7.1 of ORF6 and ORF7, respectively, induced the highest IFN-gamma responses, suggesting that these peptides represented the immunodominant Th1 cell epitopes of RD1 ORF6 and ORF7 in the patients tested. CONCLUSION: The whole blood assays with synthetic peptides are useful to identify Th1 cell antigens/peptides encoded by genes located in M. tuberculosis-specific genomic regions.
19035322 | [Pseudotyping of murine leukemia virus particles with porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus M protein-mediated E protein]. For constructing pcDNA-ORF5, pcDNA-ORF5-ORF6, pcDNA-ORF5/6, the ORF5 and ORF6 of porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) were amplified by RT-PCR, and transiently transfected into 293T cells by calciumphosphate co-precipitation. After 48 h, 293T cells were collected and surveyed by flow cytometry examination. The result indicated that the expression level of the E protein that mediated by the M protein was higher than that of the E protein expressed independently. Then pcDNA-ORF5, pcDNA-ORF5-ORF6, pcDNA-ORF5/6 were respectivly co-transfected into 293T cells with pHIT60 (include MuLV structural genes,namely gag and pol) and pHIT111 (retroviral genome, containing LacZ as a reporter). The supernatants were harvested 48 h post-transfection,and the analysis of the characteristic of the pseudotyping virions was performed by Western blot and infection test. The result indicated that the E proteins were expressed on the virions, and incorporated into the retroviral virions. Infection test were performed on Marc-145 and PAM, all the cells infected were Lac Z positive. These results indicated the pseudotype virions of MuLV-E and MuLV-E/M were infectious, and higher infectivity was achieved by MuLV-E/M.
20083666 | Mechanisms of spatial and temporal development of autoimmune vitiligo in tyrosinase-specific TCR transgenic mice. Generalized vitiligo is thought to have an autoimmune etiology and has been correlated with the presence of CD8 T cells specific for melanocyte differentiation Ag. However, limited animal models for the disease have hampered its understanding. Thus, we generated TCR transgenic mice that recognize an epitope of the melanocyte protein, tyrosinase. These animals develop vitiligo with strikingly similar characteristics to the human disease. Vitiligo develops temporally and spatially, with juvenile lesions forming bilaterally in head and facial areas, and only arising later in the body of adult animals. Vitiligo is entirely dependent on CD8 T cells, whereas CD4 T cells exert a negative regulatory effect. Importantly, CD8 T cells can be pervasively present in the skin in the steady state without inducing vitiligo in most areas. This points to developmental differences in melanocyte susceptibility and/or immunological effector mechanisms over time, or in different body locations. Disease is strongly dependent on both IFN-gamma and CXCR3, whereas dependence on CCR5 is more limited, and both CCR4 and perforin are dispensable. Genetic ablation of CXCR3 or IFN-gamma also resulted in scarce CD8 T cell infiltration into the skin. Our results identify unexpected complexity in vitiligo development and point toward possible therapeutic interventions.
22735807 | Simultaneous coexpression of memory-related and effector-related genes by individual human CD8 T cells depends on antigen specificity and differentiation. Phenotypic and functional cell properties are usually analyzed at the level of defined cell populations but not single cells. Yet, large differences between individual cells may have important functional consequences. It is likely that T-cell-mediated immunity depends on the polyfunctionality of individual T cells, rather than the sum of functions of responding T-cell subpopulations. We performed highly sensitive single-cell gene expression profiling, allowing the direct ex vivo characterization of individual virus-specific and tumor-specific T cells from healthy donors and melanoma patients. We have previously shown that vaccination with the natural tumor peptide Melan-A-induced T cells with superior effector functions as compared with vaccination with the analog peptide optimized for enhanced HLA-A*0201 binding. Here we found that natural peptide vaccination induced tumor-reactive CD8 T cells with frequent coexpression of both memory/homing-associated genes (CD27, IL7R, EOMES, CXCR3, and CCR5) and effector-related genes (IFNG, KLRD1, PRF1, and GZMB), comparable with protective Epstein-Barr virus-specific and cytomegalovirus-specific T cells. In contrast, memory/homing-associated and effector-associated genes were less frequently coexpressed after vaccination with the analog peptide. Remarkably, these findings reveal a previously unknown level of gene expression diversity among vaccine-specific and virus-specific T cells with the simultaneous coexpression of multiple memory/homing-related and effector-related genes by the same cell. Such broad functional gene expression signatures within antigen-specific T cells may be critical for mounting efficient responses to pathogens or tumors. In summary, direct ex vivo high-resolution molecular characterization of individual T cells provides key insights into the processes shaping the functional properties of tumor-specific and virus-specific T cells.
22818666 | HLA class I protective alleles in an HIV-1-infected subject homozygous for CCR5-Delta32/Delta32. Homozygosity for a 32 bp deletion in CCR5 (CCR5-Delta32/Delta32) is associated with strong resistance against HIV-1 infection. Several HLA types have been associated to improved viral control and/or delayed progression to AIDS. We report a unique HIV-1 infected individual homozygous for CCR5-Delta32/Delta32 and carrier of HLA-A*2402 and HLA-B*5701. In comparison with earlier data and although a replication competent virus has been isolated, the patient presents better immune status, response to treatment and disease evolution, which may be related to the control exerted by HLA class I restricted T cell immunity. Importantly, the accumulation of protective factors does not warrant a complete protection to HIV infection and the subsequent life-long treatment.
24782321 | Neo-antigens predicted by tumor genome meta-analysis correlate with increased patient survival. Somatic missense mutations can initiate tumorogenesis and, conversely, anti-tumor cytotoxic T cell (CTL) responses. Tumor genome analysis has revealed extreme heterogeneity among tumor missense mutation profiles, but their relevance to tumor immunology and patient outcomes has awaited comprehensive evaluation. Here, for 515 patients from six tumor sites, we used RNA-seq data from The Cancer Genome Atlas to identify mutations that are predicted to be immunogenic in that they yielded mutational epitopes presented by the MHC proteins encoded by each patient's autologous HLA-A alleles. Mutational epitopes were associated with increased patient survival. Moreover, the corresponding tumors had higher CTL content, inferred from CD8A gene expression, and elevated expression of the CTL exhaustion markers PDCD1 and CTLA4. Mutational epitopes were very scarce in tumors without evidence of CTL infiltration. These findings suggest that the abundance of predicted immunogenic mutations may be useful for identifying patients likely to benefit from checkpoint blockade and related immunotherapies. 
25197660 | Alzheimer's disease and HLA-A2: linking neurodegenerative to immune processes through an in silico approach. There is a controversial relationship between HLA-A2 and Alzheimer's disease (AD). It has been suggested a modifier effect on the risk that depends on genetic loadings. Thus, the aims of this study were to evaluate this relationship and to reveal genes associated with both concepts the HLA-A gene and AD. Consequently, we did first a classical systematic review and a meta-analysis of case-control studies. Next, by means of an in silico approach, we used experimental knowledge of protein-protein interactions to evaluate the top ranked genes shared by both concepts, previously found through text mining. The meta-analysis did not show a significant pooled OR (1.11, 95% CI: 0.98 to 1.24 in Caucasians), in spite of the fact that four of the included studies had a significant OR > 1 and none of them a significant OR < 1. In contrast, the in silico approach retrieved nonrandomly shared genes by both concepts (P = 0.02), which additionally encode truly interacting proteins. The network of proteins encoded by APP, ICAM-1, ITGB2, ITGAL, SELP, SELL, IL2, IL1B, CD4, and CD8A linked immune to neurodegenerative processes and highlighted the potential roles in AD pathogenesis of endothelial regulation, infectious diseases, specific antigen presentation, and HLA-A2 in maintaining synapses. 
25406087 | Host genetic factors associated with symptomatic primary HIV infection and disease progression among Argentinean seroconverters. BACKGROUND: Variants in HIV-coreceptor C-C chemokine receptor type 5 (CCR5) and Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) genes are the most important host genetic factors associated with HIV infection and disease progression. Our aim was to analyze the association of these genetic factors in the presence of clinical symptoms during Primary HIV Infection (PHI) and disease progression within the first year. METHODS: Seventy subjects diagnosed during PHI were studied (55 symptomatic and 15 asymptomatic). Viral load (VL) and CD4 T-cell count were evaluated. HIV progression was defined by presence of B or C events and/or CD4 T-cell counts <350 cell/mm3. CCR5 haplotypes were characterized by polymerase chain reaction and SDM-PCR-RFLP. HLA-I characterization was performed by Sequencing. RESULTS: Symptoms during PHI were significantly associated with lower frequency of CCR5-CF1 (1.8% vs. 26.7%, p = 0.006). Rapid progression was significantly associated with higher frequency of CCR5-CF2 (16.7% vs. 0%, p = 0.024) and HLA-A*11 (16.7% vs. 1.2%, p = 0.003) and lower frequency of HLA-C*3 (2.8% vs. 17.5%, p = 0.035). Higher baseline VL was significantly associated with presence of HLA-A*11, HLA-A*24, and absence of HLA-A*31 and HLA-B*57. Higher 6-month VL was significantly associated with presence of CCR5-HHE, HLA-A*24, HLA-B*53, and absence of HLA-A*31 and CCR5-CF1. Lower baseline CD4 T-cell count was significantly associated with presence of HLA-A*24/*33, HLA-B*53, CCR5-CF2 and absence of HLA-A*01/*23 and CCR5-HHA. Lower 6-month CD4 T-cell count was associated with presence of HLA-A*24 and HLA-B*53, and absence of HLA-A*01 and HLA-B*07/*39. Moreover, lower 12-month CD4 T-cell count was significantly associated with presence of HLA-A*33, HLA-B*14, HLA-C*08, CCR5-CF2, and absence of HLA-B*07 and HLA-C*07. CONCLUSION: Several host factors were significantly associated with disease progression in PHI subjects. Most results agree with previous studies performed in other groups. However, some genetic factor associations are being described for the first time, highlighting the importance of genetic studies at a local level.
25761891 | Virus-specific T lymphocytes home to the skin during natural dengue infection. Dengue, which is the most prevalent mosquito-borne viral disease afflicting human populations, causes a spectrum of clinical symptoms that include fever, muscle and joint pain, maculopapular skin rash, and hemorrhagic manifestations. Patients infected with dengue develop a broad antigen-specific T lymphocyte response, but the phenotype and functional properties of these cells are only partially understood. We show that natural infection induces dengue-specific CD8(+) T lymphocytes that are highly activated and proliferating, exhibit antiviral effector functions, and express CXCR3, CCR5, and the skin-homing marker cutaneous lymphocyte-associated antigen (CLA). In the same patients, bystander human cytomegalovirus -specific CD8(+) T cells are also activated during acute dengue infection but do not express the same tissue-homing phenotype. We show that CLA expression by circulating dengue-specific CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells correlates with their in vivo ability to traffic to the skin during dengue infection. The juxtaposition of dengue-specific T cells with virus-permissive cell types at sites of possible dengue exposure represents a previously uncharacterized form of immune surveillance for this virus. These findings suggest that vaccination strategies may need to induce dengue-specific T cells with similar homing properties to provide durable protection against dengue viruses. 
25774455 | Expression patterns of immune-associated genes in external genital and perianal warts treated with sinecatechins. The role of human papillomavirus (HPV) in human disease includes external genital and perianal warts (EGW), with some HPV genotypes having oncogenic potential (i.e., HPV-16 and -18). While green-tea extracts have antitumor and antiproliferative effects in vitro, the mechanism of action of sinecatechins in the treatment of EGW is not well understood. To investigate the role of immune-regulated genes further, an open-label, single institution, prospective study was conducted enrolling patients with clinically diagnosed EGW. Thirty subjects were enrolled, and 18 completed the trial. All patients applied sinecatechins 15% ointment to target lesions in the study. RNA expression microarrays were obtained from treated EGW lesions and analyzed for differential gene expression of immune-regulated genes. HPV types were analyzed and, based on copy number, were stratified into virological responders (VR) or nonresponders (VNR). Gene expression analysis of RNA samples was performed using TaqMan arrays for human T cell receptor and CD3 complex (TCR), Toll-like receptors (TLR) pathway, interferon (IFN) pathway, and antigen processing pathway. A total of 256 genes were analyzed across the four arrays. Genes that were significantly regulated between VRs and VNRs were CREB3L4, HIST1H3A, HIST1H3H, IFNA1, IFNA4, IFNA5, IFNA6, IFNA8, IFNA14, IFNG, IFNAR1, IL6, IRF9, MAPK4, MAPK5, MAPK14, NET1, and PIK3C2A in the IFN array. In the TCR array, HLA_B was found to be statistically significantly upregulated in both the VR and VNR groups; concomitantly, CD8A was found to be statistically significantly downregulated only in VRs. In the TLR array, only LBP and MAPK8 were found to be differentially regulated. In the antigen processing array, HLA-A, HLA-C, HLA-DMA, HLA-DMB, HLA-F, PSMA5, PSMB8, and PSMB9 were differentially downregulated. Based on these findings, it was determined that sinecatechins treatment modulates and downregulates genes involved in the pro-inflammatory response to HPV infection. 
26553974 | Polymorphisms of large effect explain the majority of the host genetic contribution to variation of HIV-1 virus load. Previous genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of HIV-1-infected populations have been underpowered to detect common variants with moderate impact on disease outcome and have not assessed the phenotypic variance explained by genome-wide additive effects. By combining the majority of available genome-wide genotyping data in HIV-infected populations, we tested for association between ~8 million variants and viral load (HIV RNA copies per milliliter of plasma) in 6,315 individuals of European ancestry. The strongest signal of association was observed in the HLA class I region that was fully explained by independent effects mapping to five variable amino acid positions in the peptide binding grooves of the HLA-B and HLA-A proteins. We observed a second genome-wide significant association signal in the chemokine (C-C motif) receptor (CCR) gene cluster on chromosome 3. Conditional analysis showed that this signal could not be fully attributed to the known protective CCR5Delta32 allele and the risk P1 haplotype, suggesting further causal variants in this region. Heritability analysis demonstrated that common human genetic variation-mostly in the HLA and CCR5 regions-explains 25% of the variability in viral load. This study suggests that analyses in non-European populations and of variant classes not assessed by GWAS should be priorities for the field going forward. 
26980598 | Neoantigen Load, Antigen Presentation Machinery, and Immune Signatures Determine Prognosis in Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma. Tumors commonly harbor multiple genetic alterations, some of which initiate tumorigenesis. Among these, some tumor-specific somatic mutations resulting in mutated protein have the potential to induce antitumor immune responses. To examine the relevance of the latter to immune responses in the tumor and to patient outcomes, we used datasets of whole-exome and RNA sequencing from 97 clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) patients to identify neoepitopes predicted to be presented by each patient's autologous HLA molecules. We found that the number of nonsilent or missense mutations did not correlate with patient prognosis. However, combining the number of HLA-restricted neoepitopes with the cell surface expression of HLA or beta2-microglobulin(beta2M) revealed that an A-neo(hi)/HLA-A(hi) or ABC-neo(hi)/beta2M(hi) phenotype correlated with better clinical outcomes. Higher expression of immune-related genes from CD8 T cells and their effector molecules [CD8A, perforin (PRF1) and granzyme A (GZMA)], however, did not correlate with prognosis. This may have been due to the observed correlation of these genes with the expression of other genes that were associated with immunosuppression in the tumor microenvironment (CTLA-4, PD-1, LAG-3, PD-L1, PD-L2, IDO1, and IL10). This suggested that abundant neoepitopes associated with greater antitumor effector immune responses were counterbalanced by a strongly immunosuppressive microenvironment. Therefore, immunosuppressive molecules should be considered high-priority targets for modulating immune responses in patients with ccRCC. Blockade of these molecular pathways could be combined with immunotherapies targeting neoantigens to achieve synergistic antitumor activity. Cancer Immunol Res; 4(5); 463-71.  2016 AACR.
28196473 | 2.7 million samples genotyped for HLA by next generation sequencing: lessons learned. BACKGROUND: At the DKMS Life Science Lab, Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) has been used for ultra-high-volume high-resolution genotyping of HLA loci for the last three and a half years. Here, we report on our experiences in genotyping the HLA, CCR5, ABO, RHD and KIR genes using a direct amplicon sequencing approach on Illumina MiSeq and HiSeq 2500 instruments. RESULTS: Between January 2013 and June 2016, 2,714,110 samples largely from German, Polish and UK-based potential stem cell donors have been processed. 98.9% of all alleles for the targeted HLA loci (HLA-A, -B, -C, -DRB1, -DQB1 and -DPB1) were typed at high resolution or better. Initially a simple three-step workflow based on nanofluidic chips in conjunction with 4-primer amplicon tagging was used. Over time, we found that this setup results in PCR artefacts such as primer dimers and PCR-mediated recombination, which may necessitate repeat typing. Split workflows for low- and high-DNA-concentration samples helped alleviate these problems and reduced average per-locus repeat rates from 3.1 to 1.3%. Further optimisations of the workflow included the use of phosphorothioate oligos to reduce primer degradation and primer dimer formation, and employing statistical models to predict read yield from initial template DNA concentration to avoid intermediate quantification of PCR products. Finally, despite the populations typed at DKMS Life Science Lab being relatively homogenous genetically, an analysis of 1.4 million donors processed between January 2015 and May 2016 led to the discovery of 1,919 distinct novel HLA alleles. CONCLUSIONS: Amplicon-based NGS HLA genotyping workflows have become the workhorse in high-volume tissue typing of registry donors. The optimisation of workflow practices over multiple years has led to insights and solutions that improve the efficiency and robustness of short amplicon based genotyping workflows.
28521443 | Loss of Fas expression and high expression of HLA-E promoting the immune escape of early colorectal cancer cells. Previous studies have investigated the mechanisms of immune evasion of tumor cells in numerous types of advanced solid malignant tumor, and several types of immune preparations have been administered as antitumor adjuvant therapies. However, in the majority of studies, the efficacy of therapies has been revealed to be limited. The present study aimed to investigate the immune evasion mechanisms employed by early colorectal cancer cells and the expression of the molecules associated with immune evasion during the malignant transformation process of normal colorectal epithelial cells to measure the effects of immune intervention for early colorectal cancer, and to improve the efficacy of immunotherapy. A total of 60 colorectal tissues, including 15 normal mucosa, 15 adenoma, 15 early cancer and 15 advanced cancer tissues, from patients undergoing endoscopic procedures in Huadong Hospital Affiliated to Fudan University (Shanghai, China) were collected. A comparison of baseline characteristics among these four groups was performed. The expression levels of human leukocyte antigen-A (HLA-A), apoptosis antigen 1 (Fas), c-c chemokine receptor type 5 (CCR5), Fas ligand (FasL) and HLA-E in each group were detected by immunohistochemical analysis. Furthermore, 15 patients with advanced colorectal cancer were enrolled into the present study. Advanced cancer and paracancer tissues (normal mucosal tissues 3 cm away from the margin of cancer tissues) were collected from each patient by colonoscopic biopsy. The expression levels of HLA-A, Fas, CCR5, FasL and HLA-E in each group were detected by western blot analysis. During the malignant transformation process of normal colorectal epithelial cells, the expression levels of CCR5, FasL and HLA-E increased significantly (P<0.001), whilst the expression levels of Fas reduced significantly (P=0.0271). In the early cancer group, the expression levels of Fas reduced significantly (P=0.0239), whilst the expression levels of HLA-E increased significantly (P<0.001) compared with adenoma group. In conclusion, a loss of Fas expression and high expression levels of HLA-E may promote the immune evasion of early colorectal cancer cells.
28920005 | The frequency of neoantigens per somatic mutation rather than overall mutational load or number of predicted neoantigens per se is a prognostic factor in ovarian clear cell carcinoma. Neoantigens derived from tumor-specific somatic mutations are excellent targets for anti-tumor immune responses. In ovarian clear cell carcinoma (OCCC), checkpoint blockade yields durable responses in a subset of patients. To approach the question of why only some patients respond, we first investigated neoantigen loads and immune signatures using exome sequencing and expression array data for 74 OCCC patients treated conventionally. Neither the number of missense mutations nor total predicted neoantigens assessed in the tumor correlated with clinical outcomes. However, the number of neoantigens per missense mutation (\neoAg frequency\) did correlate with clinical outcomes. Cox multivariate regression analysis demonstrated that low neoAg frequencies correlated with increased progression-free survival (PFS) and was an independent predictive factor for PFS in OCCC (p = 0.032), especially at stage I-II (p = 0.0045). Immunity-associated genes including those related to effector memory CD8 T cells were dominantly expressed in tumors with low neoAg frequencies in stage I-II patients, suggesting CD8 T cell-mediated elimination of immunogenic sub-clones expressing neoantigens (immunoediting) had occurred. In contrast, we observed decreased HLA-A, -B, and -C expression (p = 0.036, p = 0.026, and p = 0.030, respectively) as well as increased ratios of CTLA-4, PD-1, Tim-3, and LAG3 to CD8A expression (p = 0.0064, p = 0.017, p = 0.033 and p = 0.0136, respectively) in stage I-II tumors with high neoAg frequencies. Constrained anti-tumor immunity may thus result in limited immunoediting, and poor prognosis. Our results show that neoAg frequency in OCCC is an independent prognostic factor for clinical outcome and may become a potential candidate biomarker for immunomodulatory agent-based treatments.
30372438 | A simian-adenovirus-vectored rabies vaccine suitable for thermostabilisation and clinical development for low-cost single-dose pre-exposure prophylaxis. BACKGROUND: Estimates of current global rabies mortality range from 26,000 to 59,000 deaths per annum. Although pre-exposure prophylaxis using inactivated rabies virus vaccines (IRVs) is effective, it requires two to three doses and is regarded as being too expensive and impractical for inclusion in routine childhood immunization programmes. METHODOLOGY/ PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Here we report the development of a simian-adenovirus-vectored rabies vaccine intended to enable cost-effective population-wide pre-exposure prophylaxis against rabies. ChAdOx2 RabG uses the chimpanzee adenovirus serotype 68 (AdC68) backbone previously shown to achieve pre-exposure protection against rabies in non-human primates. ChAdOx2 differs from AdC68 in that it contains the human adenovirus serotype 5 (AdHu5) E4 orf6/7 region in place of the AdC68 equivalents, enhancing ease of manufacturing in cell lines which provide AdHu5 E1 proteins in trans. We show that immunogenicity of ChAdOx2 RabG in mice is comparable to that of AdC68 RabG and other adenovirus serotypes expressing rabies virus glycoprotein. High titers of rabies virus neutralizing antibody (VNA) are elicited after a single dose. The relationship between levels of VNA activity and rabies virus glycoprotein monomer-binding antibody differs after immunization with adenovirus-vectored vaccines and IRV vaccines, suggesting routes to further enhancement of the efficacy of the adenovirus-vectored candidates. We also demonstrate that ChAdOx2 RabG can be thermostabilised using a low-cost method suitable for clinical bio-manufacture and ambient-temperature distribution in tropical climates. Finally, we show that a dose-sparing effect can be achieved by formulating ChAdOx2 RabG with a simple chemical adjuvant. This approach could lower the cost of ChAdOx2 RabG and other adenovirus-vectored vaccines. CONCLUSIONS/ SIGNIFICANCE: ChAdOx2 RabG may prove to be a useful tool to reduce the human rabies death toll. We have secured funding for Good Manufacturing Practice- compliant bio-manufacture and Phase I clinical trial of this candidate.
32120158 | The uterine immunological changes may be responsible for repeated implantation failure. A significant part of couples in IVF-ICSI cycles experience Repeated Implantation Failure (RIF). Screening of the embryos with new methods like Next Generation Sequencing and arrays showed that even euploid embryos fail to implant. Immunology is a potent window maybe resolve the RIF problem. In this investigation we employed innate and adaptive immune system PCR array to compare the transcriptome profiles of endometrium in unexplained RIF and healthy fertile women. A total of 21 women were enrolled in the present study, 11women with unexplained RIF and 10 healthy fertile women. After RNA extraction and cDNA synthesis PCR array was performed using RT2 profiler PCR array human innate and adaptive immune responses kit (Qiagen, Cat.No: PAHS-052A). PCR Array data analysis identified significantly greater expression of IL6, IFNG, IL17A, IL23A, IFNA1, IFNB1, CD40 L, CCR4, CCR5, CCR6, CXR3, CCL2, IL2, TLR4, IRF3, STAT3, RAG1, IFNAR1 in unexplained RIF women than in controls (P < 0.05). However, expression of IL1B, IL8, NFKB, HLA-A, HLA-E, CD80, CD40 was significantly lower in unexplained RIF group than in controls (P < 0.05). Our results showed that modulation of immune system in RIF patient is shifted to inflammatory responses as pNK cells, Th17 signaling pathway and TLR signaling pathway are activated. So, by stimulation of immune system and initiation of humoral immune responses the panel of immunity and immunotolerance is completely changed in RIF patients comparing normal. It seems that attention to these alterations individually help physician to manage RIF patients better.
32658127 | Brief Report: Toll-like Receptor 9-1635A/G Polymorphism Is Associated With HIV-1 Rebound After Four Weeks of Interruption of Antiretroviral Therapy. OBJECTIVES: This study aims to analyze the association of the presence of common polymorphisms [single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs)] on Toll-like receptors (TLRs), such as TLR9-1635A/G, TLR2-1892A/C, TLR2-2258G/A, TLR4-899A/G, and TLR4-1196C/T, with the viral rebound after stopping antiretroviral treatment (ART). CCR5-Delta32 deletion and HLA-A/HLA-B alleles were also analyzed. DESIGN: Interruption of ART may be required to investigate the outcome of strategies aimed to achieve drug-free HIV remission or cure. However, interruption of ART is currently not indicated. This was a retrospective longitudinal study that included 57 long-term suppressed HIV-1-infected individuals. METHODS: TLR SNPs were detected by real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). CCR5-Delta32 was analyzed by conventional PCR and HLA-A and HLA-B alleles by PCR-SSOP Luminex. RESULTS: HIV-1 RNA rebound at week 4 after treatment interruption positively correlated with pre-ART HIV-1 load (P = 0.025). The TLR9-1635AA genotype was independently associated with a higher HIV-1 rebound compared with those with AG + GG genotype (multivariate stepwise regression analysis, P = 0.004). Women had lower HIV-1 RNA load both at rebound and during the 72 weeks of follow-up compared with men (P < 0.05 at all time-points), whereas CD4 nadir and CD4 count set-point were similar according to sex. The pre-ART viral load was independently associated with the viral set-point (P = 0.001), whereas the presence of the HLA-A01 allele (P = 0.027) and the CD4 nadir (P = 0.001) were associated with the CD4 count set-point. CONCLUSIONS: The association of the TLR9-1635AA genotype with a higher HIV-1 rebound suggests that this SNP may affect the results from strategies requiring interruption of ART aimed to cure HIV-1 infection.
33869027 | Characterization of Immune Infiltration and Construction of a Prediction Model for Overall Survival in Melanoma Patients. Reports indicate that the use of anti-programmed cell death-1 (PD-1) and death ligand-1 (PD-L1) monoclonal antibodies for the treatment of patients diagnosed with melanoma has demonstrated promising efficacy. Nonetheless, this therapy is limited by the resistance induced by the tumor microenvironment (TME). As such, understanding the complexity of the TME is vital in enhancing the efficiency of immunotherapy. This study used four different methods to estimate the infiltrating level of immune cells. Besides, we analyzed their infiltration pattern in primary and metastatic melanoma obtained from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. As a consequence, we discovered a significantly higher infiltration of immune cells in metastatic melanoma compared to primary tumor. Consensus clustering identified four clusters in melanoma with different immune infiltration and clusters with higher immune infiltration demonstrated a better overall survival. To elucidate the underlying mechanisms of immune cell infiltration, the four clusters were subdivided into two subtypes denoted as hot and cold tumors based on immune infiltration and predicted immune response. Enrichment analysis of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) revealed different transcriptome alterations in two types of tumors. Additionally, we found tyrosinase-related protein1 (TYRP1) was negatively correlated with CD8A expression. In vitro experiments showed that knockdown TYRP1 promoted the expression of HLA-A, B, and C. Eventually, we constructed a prediction model which was validated in our external cohort. Notably, this model also performed effectively in predicting the survival of patients under immunotherapy. In summary, this work provides a deeper understanding of the state of immune infiltration in melanoma and a prediction model that might guide the clinical treatment of patients with melanoma.
34127972 | Evolution of enhanced innate immune evasion by the SARS-CoV-2 B.1.1.7 UK variant. Emergence of SARS-CoV-2 variants, including the globally successful B.1.1.7 lineage, suggests viral adaptations to host selective pressures resulting in more efficient transmission. Although much effort has focused on Spike adaptation for viral entry and adaptive immune escape, B.1.1.7 mutations outside Spike likely contribute to enhance transmission. Here we used unbiased abundance proteomics, phosphoproteomics, mRNA sequencing and viral replication assays to show that B.1.1.7 isolates more effectively suppress host innate immune responses in airway epithelial cells. We found that B.1.1.7 isolates have dramatically increased subgenomic RNA and protein levels of Orf9b and Orf6, both known innate immune antagonists. Expression of Orf9b alone suppressed the innate immune response through interaction with TOM70, a mitochondrial protein required for RNA sensing adaptor MAVS activation, and Orf9b binding and activity was regulated via phosphorylation. We conclude that B.1.1.7 has evolved beyond the Spike coding region to more effectively antagonise host innate immune responses through upregulation of specific subgenomic RNA synthesis and increased protein expression of key innate immune antagonists. We propose that more effective innate immune antagonism increases the likelihood of successful B.1.1.7 transmission, and may increase in vivo replication and duration of infection.
34942634 | Evolution of enhanced innate immune evasion by SARS-CoV-2. The emergence of SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern suggests viral adaptation to enhance human-to-human transmission1,2. Although much effort has focused on the characterization of changes in the spike protein in variants of concern, mutations outside of spike are likely to contribute to adaptation. Here, using unbiased abundance proteomics, phosphoproteomics, RNA sequencing and viral replication assays, we show that isolates of the Alpha (B.1.1.7) variant3 suppress innate immune responses in airway epithelial cells more effectively than first-wave isolates. We found that the Alpha variant has markedly increased subgenomic RNA and protein levels of the nucleocapsid protein (N), Orf9b and Orf6-all known innate immune antagonists. Expression of Orf9b alone suppressed the innate immune response through interaction with TOM70, a mitochondrial protein that is required for activation of the RNA-sensing adaptor MAVS. Moreover, the activity of Orf9b and its association with TOM70 was regulated by phosphorylation. We propose that more effective innate immune suppression, through enhanced expression of specific viral antagonist proteins, increases the likelihood of successful transmission of the Alpha variant, and may increase in vivo replication and duration of infection4. The importance of mutations outside the spike coding region in the adaptation of SARS-CoV-2 to humans is underscored by the observation that similar mutations exist in the N and Orf9b regulatory regions of the Delta and Omicron variants.
35793369 | Genetic polymorphisms associated with susceptibility to COVID-19 disease and severity: A systematic review and meta-analysis. Although advanced age and presence of comorbidities significantly impact the variation observed in the clinical symptoms of COVID-19, it has been suggested that genetic variants may also be involved in the disease. Thus, the aim of this study was to perform a systematic review with meta-analysis of the literature to identify genetic polymorphisms that are likely to contribute to COVID-19 pathogenesis. Pubmed, Embase and GWAS Catalog repositories were systematically searched to retrieve articles that investigated associations between polymorphisms and COVID-19. For polymorphisms analyzed in 3 or more studies, pooled OR with 95% CI were calculated using random or fixed effect models in the Stata Software. Sixty-four eligible articles were included in this review. In total, 8 polymorphisms in 7 candidate genes and 74 alleles of the HLA loci were analyzed in 3 or more studies. The HLA-A*30 and CCR5 rs333Del alleles were associated with protection against COVID-19 infection, while the APOE rs429358C allele was associated with risk for this disease. Regarding COVID-19 severity, the HLA-A*33, ACE1 Ins, and TMPRSS2 rs12329760T alleles were associated with protection against severe forms, while the HLA-B*38, HLA-C*6, and ApoE rs429358C alleles were associated with risk for severe forms of COVID-19. In conclusion, polymorphisms in the ApoE, ACE1, TMPRSS2, CCR5, and HLA loci appear to be involved in the susceptibility to and/or severity of COVID-19.
36007063 | SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 disrupts innate immune signalling by inhibiting cellular mRNA export. SARS-CoV-2 is a betacoronavirus and the etiological agent of COVID-19, a devastating infectious disease. Due to its far-reaching effect on human health, there is an urgent and growing need to understand the viral molecular biology of SARS-CoV-2 and its interaction with the host cell. SARS-CoV-2 encodes 9 predicted accessory proteins, which are presumed to be dispensable for in vitro replication, most likely having a role in modulating the host cell environment to aid viral replication. Here we show that the ORF6 accessory protein interacts with cellular Rae1 to inhibit cellular protein production by blocking mRNA export. We utilised cell fractionation coupled with mRNAseq to explore which cellular mRNA species are affected by ORF6 expression and show that ORF6 can inhibit the export of many mRNA including those encoding antiviral factors such as IRF1 and RIG-I. We also show that export of these mRNA is blocked in the context of SARS-CoV-2 infection. Together, our studies identify a novel mechanism by which SARS-CoV-2 can manipulate the host cell environment to supress antiviral responses, providing further understanding to the replication strategies of a virus that has caused an unprecedented global health crisis.
36698398 | Canine oral squamous cell carcinoma as a spontaneous, translational model for radiation and immunology research. Introduction: Improving outcomes for oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) patients has been hindered by a lack of effective predictive animal models. Spontaneously occurring canine OSCC could help fill this gap. The objective of this study was to characterize the immune landscape of canine OSCC to advance understanding of how dogs could serve as a surrogate for human OSCC. Methods/Results: Canine OSCC contains a heterogenous tumor immune microenvironment. CD3+ T cells were the predominant tumor infiltrating immune cell population; however, there was a wide range CD3+ T cell density across samples. The most common CD3+ T cell micro-anatomical distribution was defined as \pre-existing immunity\, but the remaining 20% of tumors were characterized as \immunologically ignorant\ or \excluded infiltrates\ patterns. When compared to normal oral mucosa, the tumor gene expression pattern suggests that canine OSCC microenvironment is highly inflamed and characterized by the presence of an anti-tumor immune response dominated by cytotoxic effector T cells and NK cells (CD8a, GZMA, OX40, and HLA-A); however, overexpression of genes associated with effector T cell exhaustion and microenvironmental immunosuppression was also identified (PD-1, LAG3, CXCL2). Correlations between CD3+ T cell density and immune gene expression revealed key genes associated with cytotoxic anti-tumor T cell responses (GZMA, GZMB, PRF1), co-stimulation of T cells (CD27, CD28, ICOS), and other immune processes, including Type I IFN response (TNF, TNFSF10), and T cell exhaustion (CTLA4, PD-1). CD3+ T cell density in canine OSCC was significantly correlated with a cytolytic activity score (mean PRF1 and GZMA expression), suggestive of active effector CD8 T cell function. CD204+ macrophages were the second most abundant tumor infiltrating immune cell, and when comparing to normal oral mucosa, two differently expressed genes linked to tumor associated macrophages and myeloid derived suppressor cells (MDSC) were identified: CXCL2, CD70. Overexpression of CXCL2 was also identified in canine OSCC \T cell-high\ tumors compared to \T cell-low\ tumors. Discussion: This study identified actionable immunotherapy targets which could inform future comparative oncology trials in canine OSCC: CTLA-4, PD-1, CXCL2. These data provide a good first step towards utilizing spontaneous canine OSCC as a comparative model for human OSCC radiation and immuno-oncology research.
37738970 | SARS-CoV-2 variants evolve convergent strategies to remodel the host response. SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern (VOCs) emerged during the COVID-19 pandemic. Here, we used unbiased systems approaches to study the host-selective forces driving VOC evolution. We discovered that VOCs evolved convergent strategies to remodel the host by modulating viral RNA and protein levels, altering viral and host protein phosphorylation, and rewiring virus-host protein-protein interactions. Integrative computational analyses revealed that although Alpha, Beta, Gamma, and Delta ultimately converged to suppress interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs), Omicron BA.1 did not. ISG suppression correlated with the expression of viral innate immune antagonist proteins, including Orf6, N, and Orf9b, which we mapped to specific mutations. Later Omicron subvariants BA.4 and BA.5 more potently suppressed innate immunity than early subvariant BA.1, which correlated with Orf6 levels, although muted in BA.4 by a mutation that disrupts the Orf6-nuclear pore interaction. Our findings suggest that SARS-CoV-2 convergent evolution overcame human adaptive and innate immune barriers, laying the groundwork to tackle future pandemics.
37738983 | Impact of SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 and its variant polymorphisms on host responses and viral pathogenesis. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) encodes several proteins that inhibit host interferon responses. Among these, ORF6 antagonizes interferon signaling by disrupting nucleocytoplasmic trafficking through interactions with the nuclear pore complex components Nup98-Rae1. However, the roles and contributions of ORF6 during physiological infection remain unexplored. We assessed the role of ORF6 during infection using recombinant viruses carrying a deletion or loss-of-function (LoF) mutation in ORF6. ORF6 plays key roles in interferon antagonism and viral pathogenesis by interfering with nuclear import and specifically the translocation of IRF and STAT transcription factors. Additionally, ORF6 inhibits cellular mRNA export, resulting in the remodeling of the host cell proteome, and regulates viral protein expression. Interestingly, the ORF6:D61L mutation that emerged in the Omicron BA.2 and BA.4 variants exhibits reduced interactions with Nup98-Rae1 and consequently impairs immune evasion. Our findings highlight the role of ORF6 in antagonizing innate immunity and emphasize the importance of studying the immune evasion strategies of SARS-CoV-2.
37747932 | Pharmacological inhibition of bromodomain and extra-terminal proteins induces an NRF-2-mediated antiviral state that is subverted by SARS-CoV-2 infection. Inhibitors of bromodomain and extra-terminal proteins (iBETs), including JQ-1, have been suggested as potential prophylactics against SARS-CoV-2 infection. However, molecular mechanisms underlying JQ-1-mediated antiviral activity and its susceptibility to viral subversion remain incompletely understood. Pretreatment of cells with iBETs inhibited infection by SARS-CoV-2 variants and SARS-CoV, but not MERS-CoV. The antiviral activity manifested itself by reduced reporter expression of recombinant viruses, and reduced viral RNA quantities and infectious titers in the culture supernatant. While we confirmed JQ-1-mediated downregulation of expression of angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) and interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs), multi-omics analysis addressing the chromatin accessibility, transcriptome and proteome uncovered induction of an antiviral nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (NRF-2)-mediated cytoprotective response as an additional mechanism through which JQ-1 inhibits SARS-CoV-2 replication. Pharmacological inhibition of NRF-2, and knockdown of NRF-2 and its target genes reduced JQ-1-mediated inhibition of SARS-CoV-2 replication. Serial passaging of SARS-CoV-2 in the presence of JQ-1 resulted in predominance of ORF6-deficient variant, which exhibited resistance to JQ-1 and increased sensitivity to exogenously administered type I interferon (IFN-I), suggesting a minimised need for SARS-CoV-2 ORF6-mediated repression of IFN signalling in the presence of JQ-1. Importantly, JQ-1 exhibited a transient antiviral activity when administered prophylactically in human airway bronchial epithelial cells (hBAECs), which was gradually subverted by SARS-CoV-2, and no antiviral activity when administered therapeutically following an established infection. We propose that JQ-1 exerts pleiotropic effects that collectively induce an antiviral state in the host, which is ultimately nullified by SARS-CoV-2 infection, raising questions about the clinical suitability of the iBETs in the context of COVID-19.
37853388 | Dysregulation of intracellular redox homeostasis by the SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 protein. SARS-CoV-2 has evolved several strategies to overcome host cell defenses by inducing cell injury to favour its replication. Many viruses have been reported to modulate the intracellular redox balance, affecting the Nuclear factor erythroid 2-Related Factor 2 (NRF2) signaling pathway. Although antioxidant modulation by SARS-CoV-2 infection has already been described, the viral factors involved in modulating the NRF2 pathway are still elusive. Given the antagonistic activity of ORF6 on several cellular pathways, we investigated the role of the viral protein towards NRF2-mediated antioxidant response. The ectopic expression of the wt-ORF6 protein negatively impacts redox cell homeostasis, leading to an increase in ROS production, along with a decrease in NRF2 protein and its downstream controlled genes. Moreover, when investigating the Delta61 mutant, previously described as an inactive nucleopore proteins binding mutant, we prove that the oxidative stress induced by ORF6 is substantially related to its C-terminal domain, speculating that ORF6 mechanism of action is associated with the inhibition of nuclear mRNA export processes. In addition, activation by phosphorylation of the serine residue at position 40 of NRF2 is increased in the cytoplasm of wt-ORF6-expressing cells, supporting the presence of an altered redox state, although NRF2 nuclear translocation is hindered by the viral protein to fully antagonize the cell response. Furthermore, wt-ORF6 leads to phosphorylation of a stress-activated serine/threonine protein kinase, p38 MAPK, suggesting a role of the viral protein in regulating p38 activation. These findings strengthen the important role of oxidative stress in the pathogenesis of SARS-CoV-2 and identify ORF6 as an important viral accessory protein hypothetically involved in modulating the antioxidant response during viral infection.
37982908 | SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 protein targets TRIM25 for proteasomal degradation to diminish K63-linked RIG-I ubiquitination and type-I interferon induction. Evasion and antagonism of host cellular immunity upon SARS-CoV-2 infection provide replication advantage to the virus and contribute to COVID-19 pathogenesis. We explored the ability of different SARS-CoV-2 proteins to antagonize the host's innate immune system and found that the ORF6 protein mitigated type-I Interferon (IFN) induction and downstream IFN signaling. Our findings also corroborated previous reports that ORF6 blocks the nuclear import of IRF3 and STAT1 to inhibit IFN induction and signaling. Here we show that ORF6 directly interacts with RIG-I and blocks downstream type-I IFN induction and signaling by reducing the levels of K63-linked ubiquitinated RIG-I. This involves ORF6-mediated targeting of E3 ligase TRIM25 for proteasomal degradation, which was also observed during SARS-CoV-2 infection. The type-I IFN antagonistic activity of ORF6 was mapped to its C-terminal cytoplasmic tail, specifically to amino acid residues 52-61. Overall, we provide new insights into how SARS-CoV-2 inhibits type-I IFN induction and signaling through distinct actions of the viral ORF6 protein.
38084957 | Deubiquitinase USP1 regulates sarbecovirus ORF6 protein function. SARS-CoV-2 belongs to the subgenus Sarbecovirus, which universally encodes the accessory protein ORF6. SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 is an antagonist of the interferon (IFN)-mediated antiviral response and plays an important role in viral infections. However, the mechanism by which the host counteracts the function of ORF6 to restrict viral replication remains unclear. In this study, we found that most ORF6 proteins encoded by sarbecoviruses could be ubiquitinated and subsequently degraded via the proteasome pathway. Through extensive screening, we identified that the deubiquitinase USP1, which effectively and broadly deubiquitinates sarbecovirus ORF6 proteins, stabilizes ORF6 proteins, resulting in enhanced viral replication. Therefore, ubiquitination and deubiquitination of ORF6 are important for antagonizing IFN-mediated antiviral signaling and influencing the virulence of SARS-CoV-2. These findings highlight an essential molecular mechanism and may provide a novel target for therapeutic interventions against viral infections.IMPORTANCEThe ORF6 proteins encoded by sarbecoviruses are essential for effective viral replication and infection and are important targets for developing effective intervention strategies. In this study, we confirmed that sarbecovirus ORF6 proteins are important antagonists of the host immune response and identified the regulatory mechanisms of ubiquitination and deubiquitination of most sarbecovirus ORF6 proteins. Moreover, we revealed that DUB USP1 prevents the proteasomal degradation of all ORF6 proteins, thereby promoting the virulence of SARS-CoV-2. Thus, impeding ORF6 function is helpful for attenuating the virulence of sarbecoviruses. Therefore, our findings provide a deeper understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying sarbecovirus infections and offer potential new therapeutic targets for the prevention and treatment of these infections.
38090439 | Phylogenetic, Sequencing, and Mutation Analysis of SARS-CoV-2 Omicron (BA.1) and Its Subvariants (BA.1.1, BA.2) During the Fifth Wave of the COVID-19 Pandemic in the Iraqi Kurdistan Region. Introduction In December 2019, a global outbreak of SARS-CoV-2 occurred in Wuhan, China, resulting in the COVID-19 pandemic. Since then, the virus has spread to all countries, necessitating a worldwide initiative to create effective treatments and vaccines. Methods The RNA of samples QIAamp Viral RNA Mini Kit (Qiagen, MD). SARS-CoV-2 RNA was reverse transcribed with SuperScript IV VILO (ThermoFisher Scientific, Waltham, MA). The virus cDNA was amplified in two multiplexed PCR reactions using Q5 DNA High-fidelity Polymerase (New England Biolabs, Ipswich, MA). The genome was entirely sequenced from 40 samples at the Scripps Research Institute (TSRI) in California, USA. The samples were sequenced using a NovaSeq 6000 SP Reagent Kit v1.5 (Illumina, USA). The TSRI then entered these sequences into the GISAID database. The virus sequence was matched to the SARS-COV-2 virus identified in Wuhan, China (accession number: NC 045512.2) using Illumina sequencing technology (Illumina, CA), finding 95 different changes. The NextClade (clades.nextstrain.org) and Mega 11 (https://www.megasoftware.net) software tools were used to analyze SARS-CoV-2 genome sequence alignment and mutation studies. Results Following a sequencing analysis, it was determined that the spike glycoprotein (S) included a total of 38 mutations. Thirty of these mutations were found in the ORF1a gene. Additionally, 11 mutations were found in the ORF1b gene, with the remaining mutations found in the nucleocapsid (N), membrane protein (M), open reading frames 6 (ORF6), open reading frames 9 (ORF9), and envelope (E) genes. The phylogenetic analysis and transmission studies indicated that the isolates discovered in Iraq had separate infection origins and were closely linked to those discovered in other nations and states. Conclusion According to the findings of this study, a new vaccine can be developed based on identifying new Omicron variant mutations and subvariants such as BA.2, which were identified for the first time in Iraq.
38228858 | Evolution of enhanced innate immune suppression by SARS-CoV-2 Omicron subvariants. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) human adaptation resulted in distinct lineages with enhanced transmissibility called variants of concern (VOCs). Omicron is the first VOC to evolve distinct globally dominant subvariants. Here we compared their replication in human cell lines and primary airway cultures and measured host responses to infection. We discovered that subvariants BA.4 and BA.5 have improved their suppression of innate immunity when compared with earlier subvariants BA.1 and BA.2. Similarly, more recent subvariants (BA.2.75 and XBB lineages) also triggered reduced innate immune activation. This correlated with increased expression of viral innate antagonists Orf6 and nucleocapsid, reminiscent of VOCs Alpha to Delta. Increased Orf6 levels suppressed host innate responses to infection by decreasing IRF3 and STAT1 signalling measured by transcription factor phosphorylation and nuclear translocation. Our data suggest that convergent evolution of enhanced innate immune antagonist expression is a common pathway of human adaptation and link Omicron subvariant dominance to improved innate immune evasion.
38236733 | Quantitative comparison of nuclear transport inhibition by SARS coronavirus ORF6 reveals the importance of oligomerization. Open Reading Frame 6 (ORF6) proteins, which are unique to severe acute respiratory syndrome-related (SARS) coronavirus, inhibit the classical nuclear import pathway to antagonize host antiviral responses. Several alternative models were proposed to explain the inhibitory function of ORF6 [H. Xia et al., Cell Rep. 33, 108234 (2020); L. Miorin et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 117, 28344-28354 (2020); and M. Frieman et al., J. Virol. 81, 9812-9824 (2007)]. To distinguish these models and build quantitative understanding of ORF6 function, we developed a method for scoring both ORF6 concentration and functional effect in single living cells. We combined quantification of untagged ORF6 expression level in single cells with optogenetics-based measurement of nuclear transport kinetics, using methods that could be adapted to measure concentration-dependent effects of any untagged protein. We found that SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 is ~15 times more potent than SARS-CoV-1 ORF6 in inhibiting nuclear import and export, due to differences in the C-terminal region that is required for the NUP98-RAE1 binding. The N-terminal region was required for transport inhibition. This region binds membranes but could be replaced by synthetic constructs which forced oligomerization in solution, suggesting its primary function is oligomerization. We propose that the hydrophobic N-terminal region drives oligomerization of ORF6 to multivalently cross-link the NUP98-RAE1 complexes at the nuclear pore complex, and this multivalent binding inhibits bidirectional transport.
38265236 | CRL4B E3 ligase recruited by PRPF19 inhibits SARS-CoV-2 infection by targeting ORF6 for ubiquitin-dependent degradation. The accessory protein ORF6 of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is a key interferon (IFN) antagonist that strongly suppresses the production of primary IFN as well as the expression of IFN-stimulated genes. However, how host cells respond to ORF6 remains largely unknown. Our research of ORF6-binding proteins by pulldown revealed that E3 ligase components such as Cullin 4B (CUL4B), DDB1, and RBX1 are potential ORF6-interacting proteins. Further study found that the substrate recognition receptor PRPF19 interacts with CUL4B, DDB1, and RBX1 to form a CRL4B-based E3 ligase, which catalyzes ORF6 ubiquitination and subsequent degradation. Overexpression of PRPF19 promotes ORF6 degradation, releasing ORF6-mediated IFN inhibition, which inhibits SARS-CoV-2 replication. Moreover, we found that activation of CUL4B by the neddylation inducer etoposide alleviates lung lesions in a SARS-CoV-2 mouse infection model. Therefore, targeting ORF6 for degradation may be an effective therapeutic strategy against SARS-CoV-2 infection.IMPORTANCEThe cellular biological function of the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway as an important modulator for the regulation of many fundamental cellular processes has been greatly appreciated. The critical role of the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway in viral pathogenesis has become increasingly apparent. It is a powerful tool that host cells use to defend against viral infection. Some cellular proteins can function as restriction factors to limit viral infection by ubiquitin-dependent degradation. In this research, we identificated of CUL4B-DDB1-PRPF19 E3 Ubiquitin Ligase Complex can mediate proteasomal degradation of ORF6, leading to inhibition of viral replication. Moreover, the CUL4B activator etoposide alleviates disease development in a mouse infection model, suggesting that this agent or its derivatives may be used to treat infections caused by SARS-CoV-2. We believe that these results will be extremely useful for the scientific and clinic communities in their search for cues and preventive measures to combat the COVID-19 pandemic.
38396726 | Differentially Expressed Genes Involved in Primary Resistance to Immunotherapy in Patients with Advanced-Stage Pulmonary Cancer. In the last few years, nivolumab has become the standard of care for advanced-stage lung cancer patients. Unfortunately, up to 60% of patients do not respond to this treatment. In our study, we identified variations in gene expression related to primary resistance to immunotherapy. Bronchoscopy biopsies were obtained from advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients previously characterized as responders or non-responders after nivolumab treatment. Ten tumor biopsies (from three responders and seven non-responders) were analyzed by the differential expression of 760 genes using the NanoString nCounter platform. These genes are known to be involved in the response to anti-PD1/PD-L1 therapy. All the patients were treated with nivolumab. Examining the dysregulated expression of 24 genes made it possible to predict the response to nivolumab treatment. Supervised analysis of the gene expression profile (GEP) revealed that responder patients had significantly higher levels of expression of CXCL11, NT5E, KLRK1, CD3G, GZMA, IDO1, LCK, CXCL9, GNLY, ITGAL, HLA-DRB1, CXCR6, IFNG, CD8A, ITK, B2M, HLA-B, and HLA-A than did non-responder patients. In contrast, PNOC, CD19, TP73, ARG1, FCRL2, and PTGER1 genes had significantly lower expression levels than non-responder patients. These findings were validated as predictive biomarkers in an independent series of 201 patients treated with nivolumab (22 hepatocellular carcinomas, 14 non-squamous cell lung carcinomas, 5 head and neck squamous cell carcinomas, 1 ureter/renal pelvis carcinoma, 120 melanomas, 4 bladder carcinomas, 31 renal cell carcinomas, and 4 squamous cell lung carcinomas). ROC curve analysis showed that the expression levels of ITK, NT5E, ITGAL, and CD8A were the best predictors of response to nivolumab. Further, 13/24 genes showed an adverse impact on overall survival (OS) in an independent, large series of patients with NSCLC (2166 cases). In summary, we found a strong association between the global GEP of advanced NSCLC and the response to nivolumab. The classification of NSCLC patients based on GEP enabled us to identify those patients who genuinely benefited from treatment with immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs). We also demonstrated that abnormal expression of most of the markers comprising the genomic signature has an adverse influence on OS, making them significant markers for therapeutic decision-making. Additional prospective studies in larger series of patients are required to confirm the clinical utility of these biomarkers.
38396843 | Interferon-gamma as a Potential Inhibitor of SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 Accessory Protein. The ORF6 protein of the SARS-CoV-2 virus plays a crucial role in blocking the innate immune response of the infected cells by inhibiting interferon pathways. Additionally, it binds to and immobilises the RAE1 protein on the cytoplasmic membranes, thereby blocking mRNA transport from the nucleus to the cytoplasm. In all these cases, the host cell proteins are tethered by the flexible C-terminus of ORF6. A possible strategy to inhibit the biological activity of ORF6 is to bind its C-terminus with suitable ligands. Our in silico experiments suggest that hIFNgamma binds the ORF6 protein with high affinity, thus impairing its interactions with RAE1 and, consequently, its activity in viral invasion. The in vitro studies reported here reveal a shift of the localisation of RAE1 in ORF6 overexpressing cells upon treatment with hIFNgamma from predominantly cytoplasmic to mainly nuclear, resulting in the restoration of the export of mRNA from the nucleus. We also explored the expression of GFP in transfected-with-ORF6 cells by means of fluorescence microscopy and qRT-PCR, finding that treatment with hIFNgamma unblocks the mRNA trafficking and reinstates the GFP expression level. The ability of the cytokine to block ORF6 is also reflected in minimising its negative effects on DNA replication by reducing accumulated RNA-DNA hybrids. Our results, therefore, suggest hIFNgamma as a promising inhibitor of the most toxic SARS-CoV-2 protein.
38490508 | SARS-CoV-2 and UPS with potentials for therapeutic interventions. The Ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS), an essential eukaryotic/host/cellular post-translational modification (PTM), plays a critical role in the regulation of diverse cellular functions including regulation of protein stability, immune signaling, antiviral activity, as well as virus replication. Although UPS regulation of viral proteins may be utilized by the host as a defense mechanism to invade viruses, viruses may have adapted to take advantage of the host UPS. This system can be manipulated by viruses such as the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) to stimulate various steps of the viral replication cycle and facilitate pathogenesis, thereby causing the respiratory disease COVID-19. Many SARS-CoV-2 encoded proteins including open reading frame 3a (ORF3a), ORF6, ORF7a, ORF9b, and ORF10 interact with the host's UPS machinery, influencing host immune signaling and apoptosis. Moreover, SARS-CoV-2 encoded papain-like protease (PLpro) interferes with the host UPS to facilitate viral replication and to evade the host's immune system. These alterations in SARS-CoV-2 infected cells have been revealed by various proteomic studies, suggesting potential targets for clinical treatment. To provide insight into the underlying causes of COVID-19 and suggest possible directions for therapeutic interventions, this paper reviews the intricate relationship between SARS-CoV-2 and UPS. Promising treatment strategies are also investigated in this paper including targeting PLpro with zinc-ejector drugs, as well as targeting viral non-structural protein (nsp12) via heat treatment associated ubiquitin-mediated proteasomal degradation to reduce viral pathogenesis.
38507240 | SARS-CoV-2 Orf6 is positioned in the nuclear pore complex by Rae1 to control nucleo-cytoplasmic transport. The Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) accessory protein Orf6 works as an interferon antagonist, in part, by inhibiting the nuclear import activated p-STAT1, an activator of interferon-stimulated genes, and the export of the poly(A) RNA. Insight into the transport regulatory function of Orf6 has come from the observation that Orf6 binds to the nuclear pore complex (NPC) components Rae1 and Nup98. To gain further insight into the mechanism of Orf6-mediated transport inhibition, we examined the role of Rae1 and Nup98. We show that Rae1 alone is not necessary to support p-STAT1 import or nuclear export of poly(A) RNA. Moreover, the loss of Rae1 suppresses the transport inhibitory activity of Orf6. We propose that the Rae1/Nup98 complex strategically positions Orf6 within the NPC where it alters FG-Nup interactions and their ability to support nuclear transport. In addition, we show that Rae1 is required for normal viral protein production during SARS-CoV-2 infection presumably through its role in supporting Orf6 function.
9059145 | Ankylosing spondylitis in West Africans--evidence for a non-HLA-B27 protective effect. OBJECTIVE: To determine the prevalence of ankylosing spondylitis in the Fula ethnic group in The Gambia, and relate the disease prevalence to the B27 frequency and subtype distribution of that population. METHODS: 215 first degree relatives of 48 B27 positive Fula twin pairs, and 900 adult Fula males were screened for ankylosing spondylitis by clinical and, where appropriate, radiographic means. The B27 prevalence was determined by PCR/sequence specific oligonucleotides on finger prick samples from 100 unrelated Fula, and B27 subtype distribution by SSCP on unrelated B27 positive individuals. This data were then compared with the prevalence of ankylosing spondylitis among B27 positive Caucasians. RESULTS: No case of ankylosing spondylitis was seen. Six per cent of Fula are B27 positive, of which 32% are B*2703 and 68% B*2705. Assuming the penetrance of ankylosing spondylitis in B27 positive Fula is the same as in B27 positive Caucasians, the probability of not observing any cases of ankylosing spondylitis among the Fula examined is remote (P = 6.7 x 10(-6)). Similarly, the chance of not seeing any cases among those expected to be either B*2705 or B*2703 was small (P = 3.2 x 10(-4) for B*2705, and P = 0.02 for B*2703). CONCLUSIONS: The risk of developing ankylosing spondylitis in B27 positive Fula is lower than in B27 positive Caucasians. This is not explained by the B27 subtype distribution among Fula, and suggests the presence of some non-B27 protective factor reducing the prevalence of ankylosing spondylitis in this population.
12186903 | Analysis of the adenovirus E1B-55K-anchored proteome reveals its link to ubiquitination machinery. During the early phase of infection, the E1B-55K protein of adenovirus type 5 (Ad5) counters the E1A-induced stabilization of p53, whereas in the late phase, E1B-55K modulates the preferential nucleocytoplasmic transport and translation of the late viral mRNAs. The mechanism(s) by which E1B-55K performs these functions has not yet been clearly elucidated. In this study, we have taken a proteomics-based approach to identify and characterize novel E1B-55K-associated proteins. A multiprotein E1B-55K-containing complex was immunopurified from Ad5-infected HeLa cells and found to contain E4-orf6, as well as several cellular factors previously implicated in the ubiquitin-proteasome-mediated destruction of proteins, including Cullin-5, Rbx1/ROC1/Hrt1, and Elongins B and C. We further demonstrate that a complex containing these as well as other proteins is capable of directing the polyubiquitination of p53 in vitro. These ubiquitin ligase components were found in a high-molecular-mass complex of 800 to 900 kDa. We propose that these newly identified binding partners (Cullin-5, Elongins B and C, and Rbx1) complex with E1B-55K and E4-orf6 during Ad infection to form part of an E3 ubiquitin ligase that targets specific protein substrates for degradation. We further suggest that E1B-55K functions as the principal substrate recognition component of this SCF-type ubiquitin ligase, whereas E4-orf6 may serve to nucleate the assembly of the complex. Lastly, we describe the identification and characterization of two novel E1B-55K interacting factors, importin-alpha 1 and pp32, that may also participate in the functions previously ascribed to E1B-55K and E4-orf6.
14592774 | Evaluating the role of CRM1-mediated export for adenovirus gene expression. A complex of the Adenovirus (Ad) early region 1b 55-kDa (E1b-55kDa) and early region 4 ORF6 34-kDa (E4-34kDa) proteins promotes viral late gene expression. E1b-55kDa and E4-34kDa have leucine-rich nuclear export signals (NESs) similar to that of HIV Rev. It was proposed that E1b-55kDa and/or E4-34kDa might promote the export of Ad late mRNA via their Rev-like NESs, and the transport receptor CRM1. We treated infected cells with the cytotoxin leptomycin B to inhibit CRM1-mediated export; treatment initially delays the onset of late gene expression, but this activity completely recovers as the late phase progresses. We find that the E1b-55kDa NES is not required to promote late gene expression. Previous results showed that E4-34kDa-mediated late gene expression does not require an intact NES (J. Virol. 74 (2000), 6684-6688). Our results indicate that these Ad regulatory proteins promote late gene expression without intact NESs or active CRM1.
15914216 | A peptide inhibitor of exportin1 blocks shuttling of the adenoviral E1B 55 kDa protein but not export of viral late mRNAs. The human subgroup C adenoviral E1B 55 kDa and E4 Orf6 proteins are required for efficient nuclear export of viral late mRNAs, but the cellular pathway that mediates such export has not been identified. As a first step to develop a general approach to address this issue, we have assessed the utility of cell-permeable peptide inhibitors of cellular export receptors. As both E1B and E4 proteins have been reported to contain a leucine-rich nuclear export signal (NES), we synthesized a cell-permeable peptide containing such an NES. This peptide induced substantial inhibition of export of the E1B protein, whereas a control, non-functional peptide did not. However, under the same conditions, the NES peptide had no effect on export of viral late mRNAs. These observations establish that viral late mRNAs are not exported by exportin1, as well as the value of peptide inhibitors in investigation of mRNA export regulation in adenovirus-infected cells.
15949308 | [Study of the expression profile of immunogenesis associated genes in tuberculosis by microarray]. OBJECTIVE: To explore the difference of gene expression profile in tuberculosis patients. METHODS: mRNA levels of pleural fluid and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) in tuberculous pleurisy and lung cancer patients were compared by cDNA microarray. Paired mRNAs from fluid specimens of tuberculosis and lung cancer cases were labeled with different fluorochromes during cDNA probe synthesis in a reverse-transcription reaction. The signal intensity of each spot was measured by laser scanner and gene expression was quantified as the tubercle-to-normal fluorescence ratio (T:N ratio). The gene was defined as over expression when the T:N ratio was greater than 2.0 and under expression when the ratio was less than 0.5. RESULTS: Among 626 immunogenesis associated genes there were 53 differences, of which 31 (tnf-alpha, ig-lambda, il-17, il-17r, hla-dp, lcp1, tcralpha, tcrbeta, hsp75, cxcr4, fyb, hla-g, hla-a, il18bp, il-2r, lt-beta, il-8, ip-10, mcp-1, il-12, il-12r, il-10, canx, irf2, ifn-gamma, tlr, il-1, il-7, tlr, lsp-1, il-14)were higher and 22 (il-4, il-18, il-15, ifg-1, scya14, ablim, peci, ppid, hsf 2, actg2, maoa, ttid, gatm, tgfb3, insr, thbd, trap1, tcrgamma, tcrdelta, il-13r, il-11, igf1, a2m)were lower in tuberculous pleurisy than those in the control. CONCLUSIONS: The immunogenesis of tuberculosis involves multi-genetic expression changes, such as tnf-alpha, il-17, il-12, tcralpha, tcrbeta, hsp75, cxcr4, il-4, il-18, il-15 etc., the expression profile of which changed dramatically. The results provide new insight for understanding of the pathogenic mechanisms of tuberculosis and exploring new therapeutic strategies.
17596301 | Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus ORF6 antagonizes STAT1 function by sequestering nuclear import factors on the rough endoplasmic reticulum/Golgi membrane. The host innate immune response is an important deterrent of severe viral infection in humans and animals. Nuclear import factors function as key gatekeepers that regulate the transport of innate immune regulatory cargo to the nucleus of cells to activate the antiviral response. Using severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) as a model, we demonstrate that SARS-COV ORF6 protein is localized to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)/Golgi membrane in infected cells, where it binds to and disrupts nuclear import complex formation by tethering karyopherin alpha 2 and karyopherin beta 1 to the membrane. Retention of import factors at the ER/Golgi membrane leads to a loss of STAT1 transport into the nucleus in response to interferon signaling, thus blocking the expression of STAT1-activated genes that establish an antiviral state. We mapped the region of ORF6, which binds karyopherin alpha 2, to the C terminus of ORF6 and show that mutations in the C terminus no longer bind karyopherin alpha 2 or block the nuclear import of STAT1. We also show that N-terminal deletions of karyopherin alpha 2 that no longer bind to karyopherin beta 1 still retain ORF6 binding activity but no longer block STAT1 nuclear import. Recombinant SARS-CoV lacking ORF6 did not tether karyopherin alpha 2 to the ER/Golgi membrane and allowed the import of the STAT1 complex into the nucleus. We discuss the likely implications of these data on SARS-CoV replication and pathogenesis.
21533899 | The HLA-B 3906 allele imparts a high risk of diabetes only on specific HLA-DR/DQ haplotypes. AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: We investigated the risk associated with HLA-B*39 alleles in the context of specific HLA-DR/DQ haplotypes. METHODS: We studied a readily available dataset from the Type 1 Diabetes Genetics Consortium that consists of 2,300 affected sibling pair families genotyped for both HLA alleles and 2,837 single nucleotide polymorphisms across the major histocompatibility complex region. RESULTS: The B*3906 allele significantly enhanced the risk of type 1 diabetes when present on specific HLA-DR/DQ haplotypes (DRB1 0801-DQB1 0402: p = 1.6 x 10(-6), OR 25.4; DRB1 0101-DQB1 0501: p = 4.9 x 10(-5), OR 10.3) but did not enhance the risk of DRB1 0401-DQB1 0302 haplotypes. In addition, the B 3901 allele enhanced risk on the DRB1 1601-DQB1 0502 haplotype (p = 3.7 x 10(-3), OR 7.2). CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATION: These associations indicate that the B 39 alleles significantly increase risk when present on specific HLA-DR/DQ haplotypes, and HLA-B typing in concert with specific HLA-DR/DQ genotypes should facilitate genetic prediction of type 1 diabetes, particularly in a research setting.
21592983 | Human leukocyte antigen genotypes in the genetic control of adaptive immune responses to smallpox vaccine. BACKGROUND: The role of human leukocyte antigen (HLA) genes in mediating adaptive immune responses to smallpox vaccine remains unknown. METHODS: We determined genotypes for a group of individuals (n = 1071) who received a single dose of smallpox vaccine (Dryvax, Wyeth Laboratories) and examined associations between HLA alleles and 15 immune outcomes to smallpox vaccine on a per-locus and a per-allele level. RESULTS: We found significant associations between the HLA-B and HLA - DQB1 loci and vaccinia-induced antibodies (P = .04 for each locus), with the HLA-B*1302 (P = .036), B*3802 (P = .011), DQB1*0302 (P = .015), and DQB1*0604 (P = .017) alleles being associated with higher levels. Significant global associations were identified between vaccinia-specific interferon (IFN)-gamma and DQA1 (P = .003), interleukin (IL)-1beta and HLA-B (P = .004), tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and HLA-B (P = .006), and IL-6 and HLA-B locus (P = .016) for secreted cytokines, as well as between CD8alpha(+) IFN-gamma Elispot responses and DQB1 (P = .027). Subjects carrying B*3906 (P = .006) and B*5701 (P < .001) secreted higher levels of IL-1beta than did subjects who did not carry these alleles. Subjects carrying the B*5301 (P = .047) and B*5601 (P = .008) alleles secreted less IL-1beta, compared with subjects who did not carry these alleles. The B*3502 (P = .009), B*5601 (P = .004), and B*5701 (P < .001) alleles were significantly associated with variations in TNF-alpha secretion. CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that variations in antibody and cellular IFN-gamma, IL-1beta, TNF-alpha, and IL-6 immune responses after receipt of smallpox vaccine are genetically controlled by HLA genes or genes in close linkage disequilibrium to these alleles.
23964274 | CD8alphaalpha Expression Marks Terminally Differentiated Human CD8+ T Cells Expanded in Chronic Viral Infection. The T cell co-receptor CD8alphabeta enhances T cell sensitivity to antigen, however studies indicate CD8alphaalpha has the converse effect and acts as a co-repressor. Using a combination of Thymic Leukemia (TL) antigen tetramer, which directly binds CD8alphaalpha, anti-CD161, and anti-Valpha7.2 antibodies we have been able for the first time to clearly define CD8alphaalpha expression on human CD8 T cells subsets. In healthy controls CD8alphaalpha is most highly expressed by CD161 \bright\ (CD161++) mucosal associated invariant T (MAIT) cells, with CD8alphaalpha expression highly restricted to the TCR Valpha7.2+ cells of this subset. We also identified CD8alphaalpha-expressing populations within the CD161 \mid\ (CD161+) and \negative\ (CD161-) non-MAIT CD8 T cell subsets and show TL-tetramer binding to correlate with expression of CD8beta at low levels in the context of maintained CD8alpha expression (CD8alpha+CD8beta(low)). In addition, we found CD161-CD8alpha+CD8beta(low) populations to be significantly expanded in the peripheral blood of HIV-1 and hepatitis B (mean of 47 and 40% of CD161- T cells respectively) infected individuals. Such CD8alphaalpha expressing T cells are an effector-memory population (CD45RA-, CCR7-, CD62L-) that express markers of activation and maturation (HLA-DR+, CD28-, CD27-, CD57+) and are functionally distinct, expressing greater levels of TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma on stimulation and perforin at rest than their CD8alpha+CD8beta(high) counterparts. Antigen-specific T cells in HLA-B(*)4201+HIV-1 infected patients are found within both the CD161-CD8alpha+CD8beta(high) and CD161-CD8alpha+CD8beta(low) populations. Overall we have clearly defined CD8alphaalpha expressing human T cell subsets using the TL-tetramer, and have demonstrated CD161-CD8alpha+CD8beta(low) populations, highly expanded in disease settings, to co-express CD8alphabeta and CD8alphaalpha. Co-expression of CD8alphaalpha on CD8alphabeta T cells may impact on their overall function in vivo and contribute to the distinctive phenotype of highly differentiated populations in HBV and HIV-1 infection. 
28452824 | Analysis of shared homozygosity regions in Saudi siblings with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. AIM: Genetic and clinical complexities are common features of most psychiatric illnesses that pose a major obstacle in risk-gene identification. Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is the most prevalent child-onset psychiatric illness, with high heritability. Over the past decade, numerous genetic studies utilizing various approaches, such as genome-wide association, candidate-gene association, and linkage analysis, have identified a multitude of candidate loci/genes. However, such studies have yielded diverse findings that are rarely reproduced, indicating that other genetic determinants have not been discovered yet. In this study, we carried out sib-pair analysis on seven multiplex families with ADHD from Saudi Arabia. We aimed to identify the candidate chromosomal regions and genes linked to the disease. PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 41 individuals from multiplex families were analyzed for shared regions of homozygosity. Genes within these regions were prioritized according to their potential relevance to ADHD. RESULTS: We identified multiple genomic regions spanning different chromosomes to be shared among affected members of each family; these included chromosomes 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 13, 17, and 18. We also found specific regions on chromosomes 8 and 17 to be shared between affected individuals from more than one family. Among the genes present in the regions reported here were involved in neurotransmission (GRM3, SIGMAR1, CHAT, and SLC18A3) and members of the HLA gene family (HLA-A, HLA-DPA1, and MICC). CONCLUSION: The candidate regions identified in this study highlight the genetic diversity of ADHD. Upon further investigation, these loci may reveal candidate genes that enclose variants associated with ADHD. Although most ADHD studies were conducted in other populations, our study provides insight from an understudied, ethnically interesting population.
30037793 | The Psoriasis Risk Allele HLA-C*06:02 Shows Evidence of Association with Chronic or Recurrent Streptococcal Tonsillitis. Pharyngeal tonsillitis is one of the most common upper respiratory tract infections, and group A streptococcus is the most important bacterial pathogen causing it. While most patients experience tonsillitis only rarely, a subset of patients suffers from recurrent or chronic tonsillitis or pharyngitis. The predisposing factors for recurring or chronic forms of this disease are not yet fully understood, but genetic predisposition has been suggested. A genetic association study using Illumina's Immunochip single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) array was performed to search for new genetic biomarkers in pharyngeal tonsillitis. More than 100,000 SNPs relevant to immune-mediated diseases were analyzed in a cohort of 95 patients subjected to tonsillectomy due to recurrent/chronic tonsillitis and 504 controls. Genetic association between the cases and controls showed strongest association with two peaks in the HLA locus (odds ratio [OR], 3.7 to 4.7; P = 4.9 x 10-6 to 5.7 x 10-6). Further analysis with imputed classical HLA alleles suggested the known psoriasis risk allele HLA-C*06:02 as a risk factor for tonsillitis (P = 4.8 x 10-4; OR, 2.3). In addition, the imputed HLA haplotype HLA-C*06:02/HLA-B*57:01, a reported risk haplotype in psoriasis, had the strongest risk for tonsillitis (P = 3.2 x 10-4; OR, 6.5). These findings further support the previously reported link between streptococcal throat infections and psoriasis.
30889422 | DNA methylation and transcriptome signature of the IL12B gene in ankylosing spondylitis. OBJECTIVE: Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is an autoimmune disease without a reliable biomarker. This study investigated the IL12B gene methylation as a robust marker by integrating DNA methylation and mRNA data. METHODS: A two-stage design was used for methylome and transcriptome investigation. The first phase detected methylation level from 99 AS patients and 99 healthy controls (HCs) whilst the second phase measured mRNA level from 20 patients and 20 HCs. We conducted analysis of differential methylation sites and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) as well as mRNA level to verify methylation. RESULTS: We investigated 37 methylation sites that were mapped to 2 CpG islands (IL12B-1 and IL12B-2). Compared with HCs, the two islands were hypermethylated (IL12B-1: P = 4.6 * 10 ^ -4; IL12B-2: P = 1.3 * 10 ^ -5) and the mRNA level was overexpressed (P = 0.004) in AS patients. The subgroup analysis results showed a significant hypermethylation of the two islands in B27 positive group (IL12B-1: P = 3.7 * 10 ^ -4; IL12B-2: P = 3.7 * 10 ^ -6) and in male patients (IL12B-1: P = 4.9 * 10 ^ -4; IL12B-2: P = 7.2 * 10 ^ -6). ROC results found that the IL12B-1 island had a sensitivity of 62.6% and a specificity of 66.7%, and the IL12B-2 had a sensitivity of 50.0% and a specificity of 77.7%. CONCLUSION: DNA methylation and transcriptome signature of the IL12B gene can discriminate AS patients from HCs, and hypermethylation of the IL12B may contribute to the pathogenesis of AS.
31382992 | Next-generation sequencing identifies contribution of both class I and II HLA genes on susceptibility of multiple sclerosis in Japanese. BACKGROUND: The spectrum of classical and non-classical HLA genes related to the risk of multiple sclerosis (MS) and neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder (NMOSD) in the Japanese population has not been studied in detail. We conducted a case-control analysis of classical and non-classical HLA genes. METHODS: We used next-generation sequencing (NGS)-based HLA genotyping methods for mapping risk for 45 MS patients, 31 NMOSD patients, and 429 healthy controls. We evaluated the association of the HLA variants with the risk of MS and NMOSD using logistic regression analysis and Fisher's exact test. RESULTS: We confirmed that HLA-DRB1*15:01 showed the strongest association with MS (P = 2.1 x 10-5; odds ratio [OR] = 3.44, 95% confidence interval [95% CI] = 1.95-6.07). Stepwise conditional analysis identified HLA-DRB1*04:05, HLA-B*39:01, and HLA-B*15:01 as being associated with independent MS susceptibility (PConditional < 8.3 x 10-4). With respect to amino acid polymorphisms in HLA genes, we found that phenylalanine at HLA-DQbeta1 position 9 had the strongest effect on MS susceptibility (P = 3.7 x 10-8, OR = 3.48, 95% CI = 2.23-5.43). MS risk at HLA-DQbeta1 Phe9 was independent of HLA-DRB1*15:01 (PConditional = 1.5 x 10-5, OR = 2.91, 95% CI = 1.79-4.72), while HLA-DRB1*15:01 was just significant when conditioned on HLA-DQbeta1 Phe9 (PConditional = 0.037). Regarding a case-control analysis for NMOSD, HLA-DQA1*05:03 had a significant association with NMOSD (P = 1.5 x 10-4, OR = 6.96, 95% CI = 2.55-19.0). CONCLUSIONS: We identified HLA variants associated with the risk of MS and NMOSD. Our study contributes to the understanding of the genetic architecture of MS and NMOSD in the Japanese population.
32791162 | Whole genome sequencing identifies genetic variants associated with co-trimoxazole hypersensitivity in Asians. BACKGROUND: Co-trimoxazole, a sulfonamide antibiotic, is used to treat a variety of infections worldwide, and it remains a common first-line medicine for prophylaxis against Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia. However, it can cause severe cutaneous adverse reaction (SCAR), including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, and drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms. The pathomechanism of co-trimoxazole-induced SCAR remains unclear. OBJECTIVE: We aimed to investigate the genetic predisposition of co-trimoxazole-induced SCAR. METHODS: We conducted a multicountry case-control association study that included 151 patients with of co-trimoxazole-induced SCAR and 4631 population controls from Taiwan, Thailand, and Malaysia, as well as 138 tolerant controls from Taiwan. Whole-genome sequencing was performed for the patients and population controls from Taiwan; it further validated the results from Thailand and Malaysia. RESULTS: The whole-genome sequencing study (43 case patients vs 507 controls) discovered that the single-nucleotide polymorphism rs41554616, which is located between the HLA-B and MICA loci, had the strongest association with co-trimoxazole-induced SCAR (P = 8.2 x 10-9; odds ratio [OR] = 7.7). There were weak associations of variants in co-trimoxazole-related metabolizing enzymes (CYP2D6, GSTP1, GCLC, N-acetyltransferase [NAT2], and CYP2C8). A replication study using HLA genotyping revealed that HLA-B*13:01 was strongly associated with co-trimoxazole-induced SCAR (the combined sample comprised 91 case patients vs 2545 controls [P = 7.2 x 10-21; OR = 8.7]). A strong HLA association was also observed in the case patients from Thailand (P = 3.2 x 10-5; OR = 3.6) and Malaysia (P = .002; OR = 12.8), respectively. A meta-analysis and phenotype stratification study further indicated a strong association between HLA-B*13:01 and co-trimoxazole-induced drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (P = 4.2 x 10-23; OR = 40.1). CONCLUSION: This study identified HLA-B*13:01 as an important genetic factor associated with co-trimoxazole-induced SCAR in Asians.
33717167 | Can PIRCHE-II Matching Outmatch Traditional HLA Matching? We analyzed in a cohort of 68,606 first deceased donor kidney transplantations reported to the Collaborative Transplant Study whether an epitope-based matching of donor-recipient pairs using the Predicted Indirectly ReCognizable HLA Epitopes algorithm (PIRCHE-II) is superior to currently applied HLA antigen matching. PIRCHE-II scores were calculated based on split antigen HLA-A, -B, -DRB1 typing and adjusted to the 0-6 range of HLA mismatches. PIRCHE-II scores correlated strongly with the number of HLA mismatches (Spearman rho = 0.65, P < 0.001). In multivariable analyses both parameters were found to be significant predictors of 5-year death-censored graft loss with high prognostic power [hazard ratio (HR) per adjusted PIRCHE-II score = 1.102, per HLA mismatch = 1.095; z-value PIRCHE-II: 9.8, HLA: 11.2; P < 0.001 for both]. When PIRCHE-II scores and HLA mismatches were analyzed simultaneously, their predictive power decreased but remained significant (PIRCHE-II: P = 0.002; HLA: P < 0.001). Influence of PIRCHE-II was especially strong in presensitized and influence of HLA mismatches in non-sensitized recipients. If the level of HLA-incompatibility was low (0-3 mismatches), PIRCHE-II scores showed a low impact on graft survival (HR = 1.031) and PIRCHE-II matching did not have additional significant benefit (P = 0.10). However, if the level of HLA-incompatibility was high (4-6 mismatches), PIRCHE-II improved the positive impact of matching compared to applying the traditional HLA matching alone (HR = 1.097, P = 0.005). Our results suggest that the PIRCHE-II score is useful and can be included into kidney allocation algorithms in addition to HLA matching; however, at the resolution level of HLA typing that is currently used for allocation it cannot fully replace traditional HLA matching.
33952315 | Subtype-specific differences in Gag-protease replication capacity of HIV-1 isolates from East and West Africa. BACKGROUND: The HIV-1 epidemic in sub-Saharan Africa is heterogeneous with diverse unevenly distributed subtypes and regional differences in prevalence. Subtype-specific differences in disease progression rate and transmission efficiency have been reported, but the underlying biological mechanisms have not been fully characterized. Here, we tested the hypothesis that the subtypes prevalent in the East Africa, where adult prevalence rate is higher, have lower viral replication capacity (VRC) than their West African counterparts where adult prevalence rates are lower. RESULTS: Gag-protease sequencing was performed on 213 and 160 antiretroviral-naive chronically infected participants from West and East Africa respectively and bioinformatic tools were used to infer subtypes and recombination patterns. VRC of patient-derived gag-protease chimeric viruses from West (n = 178) and East (n = 114) Africa were determined using a green fluorescent protein reporter-based cell assay. Subtype and regional differences in VRC and amino acid variants impacting VRC were identified by statistical methods. CRF02_AG (65%, n = 139), other recombinants (14%, n = 30) and pure subtypes (21%, n = 44) were identified in West Africa. Subtypes A1 (64%, n = 103), D (22%, n = 35), or recombinants (14%, n = 22) were identified in East Africa. Viruses from West Africa had significantly higher VRC compared to those from East Africa (p < 0.0001), with subtype-specific differences found among strains within West and East Africa (p < 0.0001). Recombination patterns showed a preference for subtypes D, G or J rather than subtype A in the p6 region of gag, with evidence that subtype-specific differences in this region impact VRC. Furthermore, the Gag A83V polymorphism was associated with reduced VRC in CRF02_AG. HLA-A*23:01 (p = 0.0014) and HLA-C*07:01 (p = 0.002) were associated with lower VRC in subtype A infected individuals from East Africa. CONCLUSIONS: Although prevalent viruses from West Africa displayed higher VRC than those from East Africa consistent with the hypothesis that lower VRC is associated with higher population prevalence, the predominant CRF02_AG strain in West Africa displayed higher VRC than other prevalent strains suggesting that VRC alone does not explain population prevalence. The study identified viral and host genetic determinants of virus replication capacity for HIV-1 CRF02_AG and subtype A respectively, which may have relevance for vaccine strategies.
34424731 | Donor HLA Class 1 Evolutionary Divergence Is a Major Predictor of Liver Allograft Rejection : A Retrospective Cohort Study. BACKGROUND: The HLA evolutionary divergence (HED), a continuous metric quantifying the peptidic differences between 2 homologous HLA alleles, reflects the breadth of the immunopeptidome presented to T lymphocytes. OBJECTIVE: To assess the potential effect of donor or recipient HED on liver transplant rejection. DESIGN: Retrospective cohort study. SETTING: Liver transplant units. PATIENTS: 1154 adults and 113 children who had a liver transplant between 2004 and 2018. MEASUREMENTS: Liver biopsies were done 1, 2, 5, and 10 years after the transplant and in case of liver dysfunction. Donor-specific anti-HLA antibodies (DSAs) were measured in children at the time of biopsy. The HED was calculated using the physicochemical Grantham distance for class I (HLA-A or HLA-B) and class II (HLA-DRB1 or HLA-DQB1) alleles. The influence of HED on the incidence of liver lesions was analyzed through the inverse probability weighting approach based on covariate balancing, generalized propensity scores. RESULTS: In adults, class I HED of the donor was associated with acute rejection (hazard ratio [HR], 1.09 [95% CI, 1.03 to 1.16]), chronic rejection (HR, 1.20 [CI, 1.10 to 1.31]), and ductopenia of 50% or more (HR, 1.33 [CI, 1.09 to 1.62]) but not with other histologic lesions. In children, class I HED of the donor was also associated with acute rejection (HR, 1.16 [CI, 1.03 to 1.30]) independent of the presence of DSAs. There was no effect of either donor class II HED or recipient class I or class II HED on the incidence of liver lesions in adults and children. LIMITATION: The DSAs were measured only in children. CONCLUSION: Class I HED of the donor predicts acute or chronic rejection of liver transplant. This novel and accessible prognostic marker could orientate donor selection and guide immunosuppression. PRIMARY FUNDING SOURCE: Institut National de la Sante et de la Recherche Medicale.
34685742 | Integrative Analysis to Identify Genes Associated with Stemness and Immune Infiltration in Glioblastoma. It is imperative to identify the mechanisms that confer stemness to the cancer cells for more effective targeting. Moreover, there are not many studies on the link between stemness characteristics and the immune response in tumours. Therefore, in the current study involving GBM, we started with the study of BIRC5 (one of the rare genes differentially expressed in normal and cancer cells) and CXCR4 (gene involved in the survival and proliferation of CSCs). Together, these genes have not been systematically explored. We used a set of 27 promoter methylated regions in GBM. Our analysis showed that four genes corresponding to these regions, namely EOMES, BDNF, HLA-A, and PECAM1, were involved with BIRC5 and CXCR4. Interestingly, we found EOMES to be very significantly involved in stemness and immunology and it was positively correlated to CXCR4. Additionally, BDNF, which was significant in methylation, was negatively correlated to BIRC5.
34785698 | A phase I study of the WT2725 dosing emulsion in patients with advanced malignancies. WT2725 is a Wilms' tumor gene 1 (WT1)-derived-oligopeptide vaccine designed to induce WT1-specific cytotoxic T-lymphocytes against WT1+ tumors in human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-A*0201+ and/or HLA-A*0206+ patients. Here, we report the results of a phase I study of WT2725. In this phase I, open-label, dose-escalation and expansion two-part study, the WT2725 dosing emulsion was administered as a monotherapy to patients with advanced malignancies known to overexpress WT1, including glioblastoma. In part 1, 44 patients were sequentially allocated to four doses: 0.3 mg (n = 5), 0.9 mg (n = 5), 3 mg (n = 6), and 9 mg (n = 28). In part 2, 18 patients were allocated to two doses: 18 mg (n = 9) and 27 mg (n = 9). No dose-limiting toxicities were observed, so the maximum tolerated dose was not reached. Median progression-free survival was 58 (95% confidence interval [CI] 56-81) days (~ 2 months) across all patients with solid tumors; median overall survival was 394 days (13.0 months) (95% CI 309-648). Overall immune-related response rate in solid tumor patients was 7.5% (95% CI 2.6-19.9); response was most prominent in the glioblastoma subgroup. Overall, 62.3% of patients were considered cytotoxic T-lymphocyte responders; the proportion increased with increasing WT2725 dosing emulsion dose. WT2725 dosing emulsion was well tolerated. Preliminary tumor response and biological marker data suggest that WT2725 dosing emulsion may exert antitumor activity in malignancies known to overexpress the WT1 protein, particularly glioblastoma, and provide a rationale for future clinical development.Trial registration: NCT01621542.
35365041 | The correlation between human leucocyte antigen amino acid residue matching before keratoplasty and postoperative rejection: a systematic review and meta-analysis. BACKGROUND: At present, corneal transplantation has become the main surgical method for infectious keratitis. However, the rejection of corneal graft after operation leads to graft opacity, which is an important reason for the failure of transplantation. There is no unified conclusion whether the rejection can be reduced by matching human leucocyte antigen (HLA) before operation. The purpose of this meta-analysis is to explore the correlation between HLA locus matching and corneal transplantation rejection, so as to provide evidence-based medical evidence for clinical corneal transplantation in the treatment of infectious keratitis. METHODS: Search English databases, such as PubMed, Medline, Embase and Evidence-based Medicine Library by computer; Chinese databases, such as China Biomedical Literature Database, China Knowledge Network (CNKI) database, Wanfang database, Weipu database, and Google Academic database. According to Cochrane Handbook 5.0 risk assessment table, two researchers made random sequence random allocation method, blind method, allocation scheme hiding, integrity of data results and quality score of research results. The bias risk evaluation of Rev Man 5.3 software was used to evaluate the risk bias of the references. RESULTS: A total of 5 literatures were included, and 725 eyes underwent penetrating keratoplasty, all of which were randomized controlled trials (RCTs). The quality of the included articles was medium to high quality. A meta-analysis of four HLA-A matching articles showed odds ratio (OR) =0.28, 95% confidential interval (CI): (0.15, 0.51), significance test Z=4.08, P<0.0001, and the difference was statistically significant. Meta-analysis was performed on four HLA-B matching articles and showed OR =0.50, 95% CI: (0.27, 0.89), significance test Z=2.33, P=0.02, and the difference was statistically significant. Meta-analysis of four HLA-DR matching articles showed OR =0.69, 95% CI: (0.41, 1.17), significance test Z=1.39, P=0.17, and the difference was not statistically significant. DISCUSSION: In patients with infectious keratitis undergoing corneal transplantation, preoperative matching of HLA-A, HLA-B, and HLA-DR sites played an important role in corneal transplantation. Preoperative HLA matching is of clinical significance.
35394875 | TCR-mimic bispecific antibodies to target the HIV-1 reservoir. HIV-1 infection is incurable due to the persistence of the virus in a latent reservoir of resting memory CD4+ T cells. \Shock-and-kill\ approaches that seek to induce HIV-1 gene expression, protein production, and subsequent targeting by the host immune system have been unsuccessful due to a lack of effective latency-reversing agents (LRAs) and kill strategies. In an effort to develop reagents that could be used to promote killing of infected cells, we constructed T cell receptor (TCR)-mimic antibodies to HIV-1 peptide-major histocompatibility complexes (pMHC). Using phage display, we panned for phages expressing antibody-like variable sequences that bound HIV-1 pMHC generated using the common HLA-A*02:01 allele. We targeted three epitopes in Gag and reverse transcriptase identified and quantified via Poisson detection mass spectrometry from cells infected in vitro with a pseudotyped HIV-1 reporter virus (NL4.3 dEnv). Sequences isolated from phages that bound these pMHC were cloned into a single-chain diabody backbone (scDb) sequence, such that one fragment is specific for an HIV-1 pMHC and the other fragment binds to CD3epsilon, an essential signal transduction subunit of the TCR. Thus, these antibodies utilize the sensitivity of T cell signaling as readouts for antigen processing and as agents to promote killing of infected cells. Notably, these scDbs are exquisitely sensitive and specific for the peptide portion of the pMHC. Most importantly, one scDb caused killing of infected cells presenting a naturally processed target pMHC. This work lays the foundation for a novel therapeutic killing strategy toward elimination of the HIV-1 reservoir.
35496269 | Single Nucleotide Variants as Proxies for HLA-A*31:01 in Native American Populations. Carbamazepine triggers dermatologic hypersensitivity reactions, associated with specific human leukocyte antigens (HLAs), especially HLA-B*15:02 and HLA-A*31:01. Previous efforts to identify single nucleotide variants (SNVs) with high predictive value as HLA proxies, revealed that rs1061235 and rs17179220 fulfill these requirements for HLA-A*31:01 in some but not all populations. Herein we explored the predictive performance of rs1061235 and rs17179220 as HLA-A*31:01 tags in populations of Native American ancestry, which are largely underrepresented in pharmacogenomic studies. The study cohorts comprised the overall Admixed American superpopulation of the 1000 Genomes Project (1 KG_AMR), a subcohort of individuals with predominant Native American ancestry (1 KG_NAT), the Native American population of the Human Genome Diversity Project (HGDP), plus Kaingang (KRC) and Guarani (GRC and GKW) adults from indigenous reservation areas in Brazil. The diversity of cohorts is reflected in the range of frequencies of HLA-A*31:01 (0.02-0.65), rs1061235 (0.03-0.13) and rs17179220 (0.12-0.66), as well as in the predictive performance of these SNVs as HLA-A*31:01 proxies. NPV (negative predictive value), the metric of primary interest for pharmacogenetic-informed carbamazepine prescription was maximal (NPV = 1.0) for both SNVs in 1 KG_AMR and 1 KG_NAT, for rs17179220, but not rs1061235 (NPV = 0.91) in HGDP, and for rs17179220 in GWK, but not GRC (NPV = 0.88) or KRC (NPV = 0.80). Collectively, the data support the notion that rs1061235 and rs17179220 are not optimal proxies for HLA-A*31:01 across populations of Native American ancestry.
35878026 | Physical and in silico immunopeptidomic profiling of a cancer antigen prostatic acid phosphatase reveals targets enabling TCR isolation. Tissue-specific antigens can serve as targets for adoptive T cell transfer-based cancer immunotherapy. Recognition of tumor by T cells is mediated by interaction between peptide-major histocompatibility complexes (pMHCs) and T cell receptors (TCRs). Revealing the identity of peptides bound to MHC is critical in discovering cognate TCRs and predicting potential toxicity. We performed multimodal immunopeptidomic analyses for human prostatic acid phosphatase (PAP), a well-recognized tissue antigen. Three physical methods, including mild acid elution, coimmunoprecipitation, and secreted MHC precipitation, were used to capture a thorough signature of PAP on HLA-A*02:01. Eleven PAP peptides that are potentially A*02:01-restricted were identified, including five predicted strong binders by NetMHCpan 4.0. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from more than 20 healthy donors were screened with the PAP peptides. Seven cognate TCRs were isolated which can recognize three distinct epitopes when expressed in PBMCs. One TCR shows reactivity toward cell lines expressing both full-length PAP and HLA-A*02:01. Our results show that a combined multimodal immunopeptidomic approach is productive in revealing target peptides and defining the cloned TCR sequences reactive with prostatic acid phosphatase epitopes.
36194829 | Association Between Human Leukocyte Antigen Polymorphism and Human Papillomavirus Infection in Brazilian Women. 
36624315 | Autologous T cell therapy for MAGE-A4+ solid cancers in HLA-A*02+ patients: a phase 1 trial. Affinity-optimized T cell receptors can enhance the potency of adoptive T cell therapy. Afamitresgene autoleucel (afami-cel) is a human leukocyte antigen-restricted autologous T cell therapy targeting melanoma-associated antigen A4 (MAGE-A4), a cancer/testis antigen expressed at varying levels in multiple solid tumors. We conducted a multicenter, dose-escalation, phase 1 trial in patients with relapsed/refractory metastatic solid tumors expressing MAGE-A4, including synovial sarcoma (SS), ovarian cancer and head and neck cancer ( NCT03132922 ). The primary endpoint was safety, and the secondary efficacy endpoints included overall response rate (ORR) and duration of response. All patients (N = 38, nine tumor types) experienced Grade >=3 hematologic toxicities; 55% of patients (90% Grade <=2) experienced cytokine release syndrome. ORR (all partial response) was 24% (9/38), 7/16 (44%) for SS and 2/22 (9%) for all other cancers. Median duration of response was 25.6 weeks (95% confidence interval (CI): 12.286, not reached) and 28.1 weeks (95% CI: 12.286, not reached) overall and for SS, respectively. Exploratory analyses showed that afami-cel infiltrates tumors, has an interferon-gamma-driven mechanism of action and triggers adaptive immune responses. In addition, afami-cel has an acceptable benefit-risk profile, with early and durable responses, especially in patients with metastatic SS. Although the small trial size limits conclusions that can be drawn, the results warrant further testing in larger studies.
37192158 | IRIS: Discovery of cancer immunotherapy targets arising from pre-mRNA alternative splicing. Alternative splicing (AS) is prevalent in cancer, generating an extensive but largely unexplored repertoire of novel immunotherapy targets. We describe Isoform peptides from RNA splicing for Immunotherapy target Screening (IRIS), a computational platform capable of discovering AS-derived tumor antigens (TAs) for T cell receptor (TCR) and chimeric antigen receptor T cell (CAR-T) therapies. IRIS leverages large-scale tumor and normal transcriptome data and incorporates multiple screening approaches to discover AS-derived TAs with tumor-associated or tumor-specific expression. In a proof-of-concept analysis integrating transcriptomics and immunopeptidomics data, we showed that hundreds of IRIS-predicted TCR targets are presented by human leukocyte antigen (HLA) molecules. We applied IRIS to RNA-seq data of neuroendocrine prostate cancer (NEPC). From 2,939 NEPC-associated AS events, IRIS predicted 1,651 epitopes from 808 events as potential TCR targets for two common HLA types (A*02:01 and A*03:01). A more stringent screening test prioritized 48 epitopes from 20 events with \neoantigen-like\ NEPC-specific expression. Predicted epitopes are often encoded by microexons of <=30 nucleotides. To validate the immunogenicity and T cell recognition of IRIS-predicted TCR epitopes, we performed in vitro T cell priming in combination with single-cell TCR sequencing. Seven TCRs transduced into human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) showed high activity against individual IRIS-predicted epitopes, providing strong evidence of isolated TCRs reactive to AS-derived peptides. One selected TCR showed efficient cytotoxicity against target cells expressing the target peptide. Our study illustrates the contribution of AS to the TA repertoire of cancer cells and demonstrates the utility of IRIS for discovering AS-derived TAs and expanding cancer immunotherapies.
37490916 | Targeting of multiple tumor-associated antigens by individual T cell receptors during successful cancer immunotherapy. The T cells of the immune system can target tumors and clear solid cancers following tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte (TIL) therapy. We used combinatorial peptide libraries and a proteomic database to reveal the antigen specificities of persistent cancer-specific T cell receptors (TCRs) following successful TIL therapy for stage IV malignant melanoma. Remarkably, individual TCRs could target multiple different tumor types via the HLA A*02:01-restricted epitopes EAAGIGILTV, LLLGIGILVL, and NLSALGIFST from Melan A, BST2, and IMP2, respectively. Atomic structures of a TCR bound to all three antigens revealed the importance of the shared x-x-x-A/G-I/L-G-I-x-x-x recognition motif. Multi-epitope targeting allows individual T cells to attack cancer in several ways simultaneously. Such \multipronged\ T cells exhibited superior recognition of cancer cells compared with conventional T cell recognition of individual epitopes, making them attractive candidates for the development of future immunotherapies.
37528566 | HLA-A*11:01 and HLA-C*04:01 are associated with severe COVID-19. We analyzed the association between HLA polymorphisms and susceptibility to SARS-CoV-2 infection and disease severity. Genotyping data from a total of 9373 COVID-19-positive cases from the Spanish Coalition to Unlock Research on Host Genetics on COVID-19 (SCOURGE) consortium and 5943 population controls were included in the study. We found an association of the alleles HLA-B*14:02 and HLA-C*08:02 with a lower risk to COVID-19 infection (p = 0.006, OR = 0.84, 95% CI = [0.75-0.95], p = 0.024, OR = 0.86, 95% CI = [0.78-0.95], respectively). We also found the alleles HLA-A*11:01 and HLA-C*04:01 associated with disease severity (p = 0.033, OR = 1.16, 95% CI = [1.04-1.31], p = 0.045, OR = 1.14, 95% CI = [1.05-1.25], respectively). These results suggest that an effective presentation of viral peptides by HLA class I alleles involve a faster infection clearance, decreasing the susceptibility and severity of COVID-19.
37586317 | Phase 1 clinical trial to assess safety and efficacy of NY-ESO-1-specific TCR T cells in HLA-A*02:01 patients with advanced soft tissue sarcoma. New York esophageal squamous cell carcinoma-1 (NY-ESO-1)-specific T cell receptor (TCR) T cell therapy is effective in tumors with NY-ESO-1 expression, but a safe and effective TCR-T cell therapeutic protocol remains to be improved. Here, we report a phase 1 investigational new drug clinical trial with TCR affinity-enhanced specific T cell therapy (TAEST16001) for targeting NY-ESO-1. Enrolled patients receive TAEST16001 cell infusion after dose-reduced lymphodepletion with cyclophosphamide (15 mg/kg/day x 3 days) combined with fludarabine (20 mg/m2/day x 3 days), and the TCR-T cells are maintained with low doses of interleukin-2 injection post-adoptive transfer. Analysis of 12 patients treated with the regimen demonstrates no treatment-related serious adverse events. The overall response rate is 41.7%. The median progression-free survival is 7.2 months, and the median duration of response is 13.1 months. The protocol of TAEST16001 cells delivers a safe and highly effective treatment for patients with advanced soft tissue sarcoma (ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT04318964).
37604828 | Hydrophobic interactions dominate the recognition of a KRAS G12V neoantigen. Specificity remains a major challenge to current therapeutic strategies for cancer. Mutation associated neoantigens (MANAs) are products of genetic alterations, making them highly specific therapeutic targets. MANAs are HLA-presented (pHLA) peptides derived from intracellular mutant proteins that are otherwise inaccessible to antibody-based therapeutics. Here, we describe the cryo-EM structure of an antibody-MANA pHLA complex. Specifically, we determine a TCR mimic (TCRm) antibody bound to its MANA target, the KRASG12V peptide presented by HLA-A*03:01. Hydrophobic residues appear to account for the specificity of the mutant G12V residue. We also determine the structure of the wild-type G12 peptide bound to HLA-A*03:01, using X-ray crystallography. Based on these structures, we perform screens to validate the key residues required for peptide specificity. These experiments led us to a model for discrimination between the mutant and the wild-type peptides presented on HLA-A*03:01 based exclusively on hydrophobic interactions.
37640197 | Engineered TCR T-cell therapy targeting mass spectrometry-identified natural epitope in PDAC. Tumor antigens are crucial targets for T-cell-based therapy to induce tumor-specific rejection. However, identifying pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC)-specific T-cell epitopes has been challenging. Using advanced mass spectrometry (MS) analysis, we previously identified cancer-associated, class I MHC-bound epitopes shared by multiple PDAC patients with different HLA-A types. Here, we investigated one of these epitopes, LAMC2203-211, a naturally occurring nonmutated epitope on the LAMC2 protein. Following stimulation with the LAMC2203-211 peptide, we cloned T-cell receptors (TCRs) and transduced them into the Jurkat human T-cell line using a lentiviral vector. We found that Jurkat cells expressing LAMC2203-211-specific TCRs resulted in potent, LAMC2 specific, in vitro cytotoxic effects on PDAC cells. Furthermore, in mice that harbored either subcutaneously or orthotopically implanted tumors originating from both HLA-A allele-matched and unmatched PDAC patients, tumor growth was suppressed in a LAMC2-dependent manner following the infusion of LAMC2-targeting T cells. We have therefore developed a LAMC2-specific TCR-based T-cell therapy strategy likely suitable for many PDAC patients. This is the first study to adopt MS analysis to identify natural CD8+ T-cell epitopes in PDAC that could potentially serve as targets for PDAC immunotherapy.
37649599 | Global analysis of HLA-A2 restricted MAGE-A3 tumor antigen epitopes and corresponding TCRs in non-small cell lung cancer. Background: Advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the most common type of lung cancer with poor prognosis. Adoptive cell therapy using engineered T-cell receptors (TCRs) targeting cancer-testis antigens, such as Melanoma-associated antigen 3 (MAGE-A3), is a potential approach for the treatment of NSCLC. However, systematic analysis of T cell immune responses to MAGE-A3 antigen and corresponding antigen-specific TCR is still lacking. Methods: In this study, we comprehensively screened HLA-A2 restricted MAGE-A3 tumor epitopes and characterized the corresponding TCRs using in vitro artificial antigen presentation cells (APC) system, single-cell transcriptome and TCR V(D)J sequencing, and machine-learning. Furthermore, the tumor-reactive TCRs with killing potency was screened and verified. Results: We identified the HLA-A2 restricted T cell epitopes from MAGE-A3 that could effectively induce the activation and cytotoxicity of CD8+ T cells using artificial APC in vitro. A cohort of HLA-A2+ NSCLC donors demonstrated that the number of epitope specific CD8+ T cells increased in NSCLC than healthy controls when measured with tetramer derived from the candidate MAGE-A3 epitopes, especially epitope Mp4 (MAGE-A3: 160-169, LVFGIELMEV). Statistical and machine-learning based analyses demonstrated that the MAGE-A3-Mp4 epitope-specific CD8+ T cell clones were mostly in effector and proliferating state. Importantly, T cells artificially expressing the MAGE-A3-Mp4 specific TCRs exhibited strong MAGE-A3+ tumor cell recognition and killing effect. Cross-reactivity risk analysis of the candidates TCRs showed high binding stability to MAGE-A3-Mp4 epitope and low risk of cross-reaction. Conclusions: This work identified candidate TCRs potentially suitable for TCR-T design targeting HLA-A2 restricted MAGE-A3 tumor antigen.
37708194 | HLA class I associations with the severity of COVID-19 disease in the United Arab Emirates. SARS-CoV-2 appears to induce diverse innate and adaptive immune responses, resulting in different clinical manifestations of COVID-19. Due to their function in presenting viral peptides and initiating the adaptive immune response, certain Human Leucocyte Antigen (HLA) alleles may influence the susceptibility to severe SARS-CoV-2 infection. In this study, 92 COVID-19 patients from 15 different nationalities, with mild (n = 30), moderate (n = 35), and severe (n = 27) SARS-CoV-2 infection, living in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) were genotyped for the Class I HLA -A, -C, and -B alleles using next-generation sequencing (NGS) between the period of May 2020 to June 2020. Alleles and inferred haplotype frequencies in the hospitalized patient group (those with moderate to severe disease, n = 62) were compared to non-hospitalized patients (mild or asymptomatic, n = 30). An interesting trend was noted between the severity of COVID-19 and the HLA-C*04 (P = 0.0077) as well as HLA-B*35 (P = 0.0051) alleles. The class I haplotype HLA-C*04-B*35 was also significantly associated (P = 0.0049). The involvement of inflammation, HLA-C*04, and HLA-B*35 in COVID-19 severity highlights the potential roles of both the adaptive and innate immune responses against SARS-CoV-2. Both alleles have been linked to several respiratory diseases, including pulmonary arterial hypertension along with infections caused by the coronavirus and influenza. This study, therefore, supports the potential use of HLA testing in prioritizing public healthcare interventions for patients at risk of COVID-19 infection and disease progression, in addition to providing personalized immunotherapeutic targets.
37777360 | Coronavirus-19 disease risk and protective factors associated with HLA/KIR polymorphisms in Ecuadorian patients residing in Madrid. BACKGROUND: Immigrants represented 21.8% of cases in a Spanish cohort of hospitalised patients with COVID-19, a proportion exceeding the percentage of immigrants in that area's total population. Among the ethnic-related genetic risk factors for COVID-19, human leukocyte antigen (HLA) genotypes in diverse populations might bias the response to SARS-CoV-2 infection and/or progression. Similarly, genetic differences in natural killer-activating and inhibitory receptors could play a role in the immune system's response to the viral infection. METHODS: We characterised HLA alleles and KIR genes in 52 Ecuadorian patients hospitalised for moderate and severe COVID-19 and 87 Ecuadorian controls from the general population living in the same area. RESULTS: There was a significantly increased frequency of the HLA-B*39 antigen and the activating KIR2DS4 receptor in the presence of its HLA-C*04 ligand in the COVID-19 group when compared with the control group. In contrast, there was a significant reduction in the frequency of carriers of KIR2DL1 and of the KIR3DL1/Bw4 receptor/ligand combination among COVID-19 group. On the other hand, HLA-A*24:02 and HLA-DRB1*09:01 alleles showed significantly lower frequencies specifically in the severe COVID-19 group. CONCLUSION: HLA-B*39 alleles might be genetic risk factors for developing COVID-19 in Ecuadorian individuals. In the presence of its ligand C*04, the natural killer-activating receptor KIR2DS4 might also increase the risk of developing COVID-19, while, in the presence of HLA-Bw4 alleles, the inhibitory receptor KIR3DL1 might play a protective role. Patients with COVID-19 who carry HLA-A*24:02 and HLA-DRB1*09:01 alleles might be protected against more severe forms of COVID-19.
37796941 | Coarse-grained molecular dynamics-guided immunoinformatics to explain the binder and non-binder classification of Cytotoxic T-cell epitope for SARS-CoV-2 peptide-based vaccine discovery. Epitope-based peptide vaccine can elicit T-cell immunity against SARS-CoV-2 to clear the infection. However, finding the best epitope from the whole antigen is challenging. A peptide screening using immunoinformatics usually starts from MHC-binding peptide, immunogenicity, cross-reactivity with the human proteome, to toxicity analysis. This pipeline classified the peptides into three categories, i.e., strong-, weak-, and non-binder, without incorporating the structural aspect. For this reason, the molecular detail that discriminates the binders from non-binder is interesting to be investigated. In this study, five CTL epitopes against HLA-A*02:01 were identified from the coarse-grained molecular dynamics-guided immunoinformatics screening. The strong binder showed distinctive activities from the non-binder in terms of structural and energetic properties. Furthermore, the second residue from the nonameric peptide was most important in the interaction with HLA-A*02:01. By understanding the nature of MHC-peptide interaction, we hoped to improve the chance of finding the best epitope for a peptide vaccine candidate.
37865274 | Over-representation analysis of angiogenic factors in immunosuppressive mechanisms in neoplasms and neurological conditions during COVID-19. BACKGROUND: Recent studies emphasized the necessity to identify key (human) biological processes and pathways targeted by the Coronaviridae family of viruses, especially Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19) caused up to 33-55 % death rates in COVID-19 patients with malignant neoplasms and Alzheimer's disease. Given this scenario, we identified biological processes and pathways involved in various diseases which are most likely affected by COVID-19. METHODS: The COVID-19 DisGeNET data set (v4.0) contains the associations between various diseases and human genes known to interact with viruses from Coronaviridae family and were obtained from the IntAct Coronavirus data set annotated with DisGeNET data. We constructed the disease-gene network to identify genes that are involved in various comorbid diseased states. Communities from the disease-gene network were identified using Louvain method and functional enrichment through over-representation analysis methodology was used to discover significant biological processes and pathways shared between COVID-19 and other diseases. RESULT: The COVID-19 DisGeNET data set (v4.0) comprised of 828 human genes and 10,473 diseases (including various phenotypes) that together constituted nodes in the disease-gene network. Each of the 70,210 edges connects a human gene with an associated disease. The top 10 genes linked to most number of diseases were VEGFA, BCL2, CTNNB1, ALB, COX2, AGT, HLA-A, HMOX1, FGF2 and COMT. The most vulnerable group of patients thus discovered had comorbid conditions such as carcinomas, malignant neoplasms and Alzheimer's disease. Finally, we identified 15 potentially useful biological processes and pathways for improved therapies. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is the key mediator of angiogenesis in cancer. It is widely distributed in the brain and plays a crucial role in brain inflammation regulating the level of angiopoietins. With a degree of 1899, VEGFA was associated with maximum number of diseases in the disease-gene network. Previous studies have indicated that increased levels of VEGFA in the blood results in dyspnea, Pulmonary Edema (PE), Acute Lung Injury (ALI) and Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS). In case of COVID-19 patients with neoplasms and other neurological symptoms, our results indicate VEGFA as a therapeutic target for inflammation suppression. As VEGFs are known to disproportionately affect cancer patients, improving endothelial permeability and vasodilation with anti-VEGF therapy could lead to suppression of inflammation and also improve oxygenation. As an outcome of our study, we make case for clinical investigations towards anti-VEGF therapies for such comorbid conditions affected by COVID-19 for better therapeutic outcomes.
37887003 | Individual Immune Response to SARS-CoV-2 Infection-The Role of Seasonal Coronaviruses and Human Leukocyte Antigen. During the coronavirus pandemic, evidence is growing that the severity, susceptibility and host immune response to SARS-CoV-2 infection can be highly variable. Several influencing factors have been discussed. Here, we investigated the humoral immune response against SARS-CoV-2 spike, S1, S2, the RBD, nucleocapsid moieties and S1 of seasonal coronaviruses: hCoV-229E, hCoV-HKU1, hCoV-NL63 and hCoV-OC43, as well as MERS-CoV and SARS-CoV, in a cohort of 512 individuals. A bead-based multiplex assay allowed simultaneous testing for all the above antigens and the identification of different antibody patterns. Then, we correlated these patterns with 11 HLA loci. Regarding the seasonal coronaviruses, we found a moderate negative correlation between antibody levels against hCoV-229E, hCoV-HKU1 and hCoV-NL63 and the SARS-CoV-2 antigens. This could be an indication of the original immunological imprinting. High and low antibody response patterns were distinguishable, demonstrating the individuality of the humoral response towards the virus. An immunogenetical factor associated with a high antibody response (formation of >=4 different antibodies) was the presence of HLA A*26:01, C*02:02 and DPB1*04:01 alleles, whereas the HLA alleles DRB3*01:01, DPB1*03:01 and DB1*10:01 were enriched in low responders. A better understanding of this variable immune response could enable more individualized protective measures.
38022506 | Surveillance of SARS-CoV-2 immunogenicity: loss of immunodominant HLA-A*02-restricted epitopes that activate CD8+ T cells. Introduction and methods: In this present work, coronavirus subfamilies and SARS-CoV-2 Variants of Concern (VOCs) were investigated for the presence of MHC-I immunodominant viral peptides using in silico and in vitro tools. Results: In our results, HLA-A*02 haplotype showed the highest number of immunodominant epitopes but with the lowest combined prediction score. Furthermore, a decrease in combined prediction score was observed for HLA-A*02-restricted epitopes when the original strain was compared to the VOCs, indicating that the mutations on the VOCs are promoting escape from HLA-A2-mediated antigen presentation, which characterizes a immune evasion process. Additionally, epitope signature analysis revealed major immunogenic peptide loss for structural (S) and non-structural (ORF8) proteins of VOCs in comparison to the Wuhan sequence. Discussion: These results may indicate that the antiviral CD8+ T-cell responses generated by original strains could not be sufficient for clearance of variants in either newly or reinfection with SARS-CoV-2. In contrast, N epitopes remain the most conserved and reactive peptides across SARS-CoV-2 VOCs. Overall, our data could contribute to the rational design and development of new vaccinal platforms to induce a broad cellular CD8+ T cell antiviral response, aiming at controlling viral transmission of future SARS-CoV-2 variants.
38065105 | SARS-CoV-2 immune response and reinfection in vaccinated Maya and mestizo in Southeast of Mexico. Immune response to pathogens, including coronaviruses, is influenced by HLA haplotypes. 1,2. Maya ethnic group is predominant in Yucatan peninsula, this Amerindian group present allele frequency  HLA-G*01:01:02, HLA-G*01:01:01, HLA-G*01:04:01, HLA-A*68  not found in another Amerindians.3-5 Immune response to SARS-CoV-2 vaccination and reinfection particularly after Omicron variant appeared was explored in 118 vaccinated subjects with complete two shots immunization in Maya ascendant and mestizo no-Maya. 1172 epidemiological survey applied to university staff in Campeche, Mexico to evaluate reinfection, co-morbidities, variant virus, disease severity, aftermaths, clinical outcomes, age, sex, ethnicity, and vaccination shots. Multiple logistic regression, correspondence analysis, and association tests were used to analysis data.   Sixteen percent  of vaccinated subjects became seronegative after 11 months. We found that vaccinated Maya subjects respond with higher IgG immune response compared to no-Maya subjects, similarly women respond with higher IgG response than men (p<0.05). During an eleven-month period and after two vaccination shots, 7% of the vaccinated subjects reported a confirmed positive infection, and after the third vaccine shot a higher IgG immune response than two vaccination shots or natural infection was detected. However, we observed 23.7% reinfection in people after the third shot. This data represents almost three times  the reinfection rate reported when compared to  previous third vaccine shots. The increase of reinfection in vaccinated subjects was associated with circulation of Omicron variant by 71.5%. Others have reported  reinfection of 40% and vaccine effectiveness of 60% during Omicron dominance.6 To understand COVID-19 severity after reinfection in vaccinated subjects and the associated variables, we carried out a multiple logistic regression, and found a strong association between less severe symptoms with Alfa and Omicron variants (B 5.3; Error 0.39; Wald 0.00; Significance 0.00; OR201).  However, subjects with severe symptoms and or hospitalization correspondent to individuals with multiplex comorbidities and  Gamma SARS-CoV-2 variants (B 5.06; Error 0.97; Wald 26.8; Significance 0.00; OR 158). A follow-up survey of COVID-19 recovered patients experienced diverse digestive, respiratory, cardiac, neurological, or joints involvement sequelae. We looked for SARS-CoV-2 variant and COVID-19 sequelae in a correspondence analysis. Our data suggest that Beta and Delta variants are associated with respiratory and digestive symptoms, whereas Omicron was more closely associated with joints and digestive symptoms, and finally the Gamma variant displayed wider and more diverse symptoms. Our results suggest that genetic background and gender influence IgG response to SARS-CoV-2 vaccine, and  Maya ascendant has higher immune IgG response to vaccine than mestizos. Reinfection in our population studied fluctuate from 7% to 23.7% nevertheless is higher if Omicron variant is involved, but symptoms are less severe and more closely associated with joints and digestive symptoms.
38116398 | Human motor neurons derived from induced pluripotent stem cells are susceptible to SARS-CoV-2 infection. Introduction: COVID-19 typically causes Q7 respiratory disorders, but a high proportion of patients also reports neurological and neuromuscular symptoms during and after SARSCoV-2 infection. Despite a number of studies documenting SARS-CoV-2 infection of various neuronal cell populations, the impact of SARS-CoV-2 exposure on motor neuronal cells specifically has not been investigated so far. Methods: Thus, by using human iPSC-derived motor neurons (iPSC-MNs) we assessed: (i) the expression of SARS-CoV-2 main receptors; (ii) iPSC-MN infectability by SARS-CoV-2; and (iii) the effect of SARS-CoV-2 exposure on iPSC-MN transcriptome. Results: Gene expression profiling and immunofluorescence (IF) analysis of the main host cell receptors recognized by SARS-CoV-2 revealed that all of them are expressed in iPSC-MNs, with CD147 and NRP1 being the most represented ones. By analyzing SARS-CoV-2 N1 and N2 gene expression over time, we observed that human iPSC-MNs were productively infected by SARS-CoV-2 in the absence of cytopathic effect. Supernatants collected from SARS-CoV-2-infected iPSC-MNs were able to re-infect VeroE6 cells. Image analyses of SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid proteins by IF confirmed iPSC-MN infectability. Furthermore, SARS-CoV-2 infection in iPSCMNs significantly altered the expression of genes (IL-6, ANG, S1PR1, BCL2, BAX, Casp8, HLA-A, ERAP1, CD147, MX1) associated with cell survival and metabolism, as well as antiviral and inflammatory response. Discussion: These results suggest for the very first time that SARS-CoV-2 can productively infect human iPSC-derived MNs probably by binding CD147 and NRP1 receptors. Such information will be important to unveil the biological bases of neuromuscular disorders characterizing SARS-CoV-2 infection and the so called long-COVID symptoms.
38433722 | Strong humoral response after Covid-19 vaccination correlates with the common HLA allele A*03:01 and protection from breakthrough infection. Few data exist on the role of genetic factors involving the HLA system on response to Covid-19 vaccines. Moving from suggestions of a previous study investigating the association of some HLA alleles with humoral response to BNT162b2, we here compared the HLA allele frequencies among weak (n = 111) and strong (n = 123) responders, defined as those healthcare workers with the lowest and the highest anti-Spike antibody levels after vaccination. Individuals with clinical history of Covid-19 or positive anti-nucleocapside antibodies were excluded. We found the common HLA-A*03:01 allele as an independent predictor of strong humoral response (OR = 12.46, 95% CI: 4.41-35.21, p < 0.0001), together with younger age of vaccines (p = 0.004). Correlation between antibody levels and protection from breakthrough infection has been observed, with a 2-year cumulative incidence of 42% and 63% among strong and weak responders, respectively (p = 0.03). Due to the high frequency of HLA-A*03:01 and the need for seasonal vaccinations against SARS-CoV-2 mutants, our findings provide useful information about the inter-individual differences observed in humoral response after Covid-19 vaccine and might support further studies on the next seasonal vaccines.
38514841 | ACE2-dependent and -independent SARS-CoV-2 entries dictate viral replication and inflammatory response during infection. Excessive inflammation is the primary cause of mortality in patients with severe COVID-19, yet the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. Our study reveals that ACE2-dependent and -independent entries of SARS-CoV-2 in epithelial cells versus myeloid cells dictate viral replication and inflammatory responses. Mechanistically, SARS-CoV-2 NSP14 potently enhances NF-kappaB signalling by promoting IKK phosphorylation, while SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 exerts an opposing effect. In epithelial cells, ACE2-dependent SARS-CoV-2 entry enables viral replication, with translated ORF6 suppressing NF-kappaB signalling. In contrast, in myeloid cells, ACE2-independent entry blocks the translation of ORF6 and other viral structural proteins due to inefficient subgenomic RNA transcription, but NSP14 could be directly translated from genomic RNA, resulting in an abortive replication but hyperactivation of the NF-kappaB signalling pathway for proinflammatory cytokine production. Importantly, we identified TLR1 as a critical factor responsible for viral entry and subsequent inflammatory response through interaction with E and M proteins, which could be blocked by the small-molecule inhibitor Cu-CPT22. Collectively, our findings provide molecular insights into the mechanisms by which strong viral replication but scarce inflammatory response during the early (ACE2-dependent) infection stage, followed by low viral replication and potent inflammatory response in the late (ACE2-independent) infection stage, may contribute to COVID-19 progression.
38518551 | Upping the ante: enhanced expression of interferon-antagonizing ORF6 and ORF9b proteins by SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern. SARS-CoV-2 exhibits a remarkable capability to subvert the host antiviral innate immune system. This adeptness is orchestrated by viral proteins, which initially attempt to obstruct the activation of the antiviral immune program and then act as a fail-safe mechanism to mitigate the downstream effects of the activated immune response. This dual strategy leads to delayed expression and enfeebled action of type-I and -III interferons at the infection site, enabling the virus to replicate extensively in the lungs and subsequently disseminate to other organs. Throughout the course of the COVID-19 pandemic, SARS-CoV-2 has undergone evolution, giving rise to several variants of concern, some with exceedingly higher transmission and virulence. These improved features have been linked, at least in part, to the heightened expression or activity of specific viral proteins involved in circumventing host defense mechanisms. In this review, we aim to provide a concise summary of two SARS-CoV-2 proteins, ORF6 and ORF9b, which provided selective advantage to certain variants, affecting their biology and pathogenesis.
38539271 | Identification of SARS-CoV-2-specific T cell and its receptor. The T-cell receptor (TCR) repertoires exhibits distinct signatures associated with COVID-19 severity. However, the precise identification of vaccine-induced SARS-CoV-2-specific TCRs and T-cell immunity mechanisms are unknown. We developed a machine-learning model that can differentiate COVID-19 patients from healthy individuals based on TCR sequence features with an accuracy of 95.7%. Additionally, we identified SARS-CoV-2-specific T cells and TCR in HLA-A*02 vaccinated individuals by peptide stimulation. The SARS-CoV-2-specific T cells exhibited higher cytotoxicity and prolonged survival when targeting spike-pulsed cells in vitro or in vivo. The top-performing TCR was further tested for its affinity and cytotoxic effect against SARS-CoV-2-associated epitopes. Furthermore, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), immune repertoire sequencing (IR-seq) and flow cytometry were used to access vaccine-induced cellular immunity, which demonstrated that robust T cell responses (T cell activation, tissue-resident memory T cell (Trm) generation, and TCR clonal expansion) could be induced by intranasal vaccination. In summary, we identified the SARS-CoV-2-associated TCR repertoires profile, specific TCRs and T cell responses. This study provides a theoretical basis for developing effective immunization strategies.
38543518 | Genomic Surveillance and Mutation Analysis of SARS-CoV-2 Variants among Patients in Saudi Arabia. The genome of severe acute respiratory coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2), the virus responsible for coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), has undergone a rapid evolution, resulting in the emergence of multiple SARS-CoV-2 variants with amino acid changes. This study aimed to sequence the whole genome of SARS-CoV-2 and detect the variants present in specimens from Saudi Arabia. Furthermore, we sought to analyze and characterize the amino acid changes in the various proteins of the identified SARS-CoV-2 variants. A total of 1161 samples from patients diagnosed with COVID-19 in Saudi Arabia, between 1 April 2021 and 31 July 2023, were analyzed. Whole genome sequencing was employed for variant identification and mutation analysis. The statistical analysis was performed using the Statistical Analytical Software SAS, version 9.4, and GraphPad, version 9.0. This study identified twenty-three variants and subvariants of SARS-CoV-2 within the population, with the Omicron BA.1 (21K) variant (37.0%) and the Delta (21J) variant (12%) being the most frequently detected. Notably, the Omicron subvariants exhibited a higher mean mutation rate. Amino acid mutations were observed in twelve proteins. Among these, the spike (S), ORF1a, nucleocapsid (N), and ORF1b proteins showed a higher frequency of amino acid mutations compared to other the viral proteins. The S protein exhibited the highest incidence of amino acid mutations (47.6%). Conversely, the ORF3a, ORF8, ORF7a, ORF6, and ORF7b proteins appeared more conserved, demonstrating the lowest percentage and frequency of amino acid mutations. The investigation of structural protein regions revealed the N-terminal S1 subunit of the S protein to frequently harbor mutations, while the N-terminal domain of the envelope (E) protein displayed the lowest mutation frequency. This study provides insights into the variants and genetic diversity of SARS-CoV-2, underscoring the need for further research to comprehend its genome evolution and the occurrence of mutations. These findings are pertinent to the development of testing approaches, therapeutics, and vaccine strategies.
38574833 | Relative frequency of genomic mutations in SARS-CoV-2 recovered from southern Brazilian cases of COVID-19 through the Gamma, Delta and Omicron waves. The presence of different mutations in the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) genome can be related to changes in coronavirus disease (COVID-19) infection. Besides, these viral alterations associated with factors such as massive number of positive cases, vaccination and reinfections can be important in the viral evolution process. As well as, mutations found at low frequencies may have a more neutral action and consequently be less inclined to negative selection, facilitating their spread through the population. Related to that, we aimed to present mutations that are possibly relevant in the process of viral evolution found in 115 SARS-CoV-2 sequences from samples of individuals residing in the metropolitan region of Porto Alegre in the state of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. The genome from clinical samples was sequenced using High-Throughput Sequencing (HTS) and analyzed using a workflow to map reads and find variations/SNPs. The samples were separated into 3 groups considering the sample lineage. Of the total number of analyzed sequences, 35 were from the Gamma lineage, 35 from Delta and 45 from Omicron. Amino acid changes present in frequencies lower than 80% of the reads in the sequences were evaluated. 11 common mutations among the samples were found in the Gamma lineage, 1 in the ORF1ab gene, 7 in the S gene, 2 in the ORF6 gene and 1 in the ORF7a gene. While in the Delta lineage, a total of 11 mutations distributed in the ORF1ab, S, ORF7a and N genes, 2, 7, 1 and 1 mutation were found in each gene, respectively. And finally, in the Omicron, 16 mutations were identified, 2 in the ORF1ab gene, 12 in the S gene and 2 in the M gene. In conclusion, we emphasize that genomic surveillance can be a useful tool to assess how mutations play a key role in virus adaptation, and its process of susceptibility to new hosts showing the possible signs of viral evolution.
38580537 | HLA alleles associated with susceptibility and severity of the COVID-19 in Vietnamese. The diversity of clinical manifestations in COVID-19 has been observed not only among individuals but also among various populations in globally. HLA molecules play a central role in physiology, protective immunity, and deleterious, disease-related autoimmune reactivity or overreaction. This study exploited the association between HLA frequencies and SARS-CoV-2 susceptibility and disease severity among the Vietnamese cohort (159 patients and 52 controls). A significant difference in frequency of both HLA class I and II in mild, moderate, and severe/fatal COVID-19 patients and negative exposure individuals - the controls were observed. Regarding SARS-CoV-2 sensitivity, HLA-A*03:01, 30:01, HLA-DQA1*01:02, DRB1*15:01, and DRB5*02:02 presented higher frequency in the control group compared with infected patients but DRB1 09:01 frequency was higher in infected patients. Regarding COVID-19 severity, HLA-F*01:01, 01:03 and DPA1*01:03 and 02:01, DPB1*04:01, DQA1*01:02, and DQB1*05:02 alleles were detected with higher frequency in severe patients but DOB*01:01, DRB1*05:01 and 09:01 had a significantly higher frequency in the mild group than remaining groups. Surprisingly, HLA-DQA1*01:02 and DRB1*09:01 alleles were identified with both inversely potential roles in protective function and severe risk. The obtained data herein will contribute to explore on the role of host genetic background in the pathology of COVID-19 disease.
38582657 | A comparative analysis of TCR immune repertoire in COVID-19 patients. The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has merged as a global health threat since its outbreak in December 2019. Despite widespread recognition, there has been a paucity of studies focusing on the T cell receptor (TCR) bias in adaptive immunity induced by SARS-CoV-2. This research conducted a comparative analysis of the TCR immune repertoire to identify notable alphabeta TCR bias sequences associated with the SARS-CoV-2 virus antigen. The present study encompassed 73 symptomatic COVID-19 patients, categorized as moderate/mild or severe/critical, along with 9 healthy controls. Our findings revealed specific TCR chains prominently utilized by moderate and severe patients, identified as TRAV30-J34-TRBV3-1-J2-7 and TRAV12-3-J6-TRBV28-J1-1, respectively. Additionally, our research explored critical TCR preferences in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) of COVID-19 patients at various disease stages. Indeed, monitoring the dynamics of immune repertoire changes in COVID-19 patients could serve as a crucial biomarker for predicting disease progression and recovery. Furthermore, the study explored TCR bias in both peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and BALF. The most common alphabeta VJ pair observed in BALF was TRAV12-3-J18-TRBV7-6-J2-7. In addition, a comparative analysis with the VDJdb database indicated that the HLA-A*02:01 allele exhibited the widest distribution and highest frequency in COVID-19 patients across different periods. This comprehensive examination provided a global characterization of the TCR immune repertoire in COVID-19 patients, contributing significantly to our understanding of TCR bias induced by SARS-CoV-2.
38590857 | Evaluation the frequencies of HLA alleles in moderate and severe COVID-19 patients in Iran: A molecular HLA typing study. Background: Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 was first reported in December 2019 and it has spread globally ever since. The HLA system is crucial in directing anti-viral immunity and recent studies are investigating the possible involvement of the HLA genes on the severity of immune inflammation in different phases of COVID-19. Methods: In this cross-sectional study, peripheral blood-extracted genomic DNAs of 109 COVID-19 patients and 70 healthy controls were genotyped for different alleles of HLA-A, HLA-B, and HLA-DRB1 loci using sequence-specific primer PCR method. Results: The results indicated that frequencies of HLA-DRB1*11:01 and HLA-DRB1*04:03 were significantly higher in severe patients rather than moderates (p: <0.001 and 0.004, respectively). Also, it was observed that HLA-DRB1*04:01 was more frequent in moderate patients and healthy controls (p:0.002). In addition, HLA-B*07:35, and HLA-DRB1*07:01 showed higher frequencies in patients compared with controls (p: 0.031 and 0.003 respectively). Inversely, due to the higher frequencies of HLA-B*51:01 (p:0.027), HLA-DRB1*11:05 (p:0.003), HLA-DRB1*13:05 (p:0.022), and HLA-DRB1*14:01 (p:0.006) in healthy individuals rather than patients, they may be associated with COVID-19 resistance. Conclusion: The results show that, based on the population differences, the type of alleles related to the severity of COVID-19 is different, which should be clarified by designing large-scale studies in order to develop HLA-based treatments and vaccines.
9068631 | Cloning and characterization of bacteriophage-like DNA from Haemophilus somnus homologous to phages P2 and HP1. In an attempt to identify and characterize components of a heme uptake system of Haemophilus somnus, an Escherichia coli cosmid library of H. somnus genomic DNA was screened for the ability to bind hemin (Hmb+). The Hmb+ phenotype was associated with a 7,814-bp HindIII fragment of H. somnus DNA that was subcloned and sequenced. Thirteen open reading frames (orfs) were identified, all transcribed in one direction, and transposon mutagenesis identified orf7 as the gene associated with the Hmb+ phenotype. Orf7 (178 amino acids) has extensive homology with the lysozymes of bacteriophages P-A2, P21, P22, PZA, phi-29, phi-vML3, T4, or HP1. The orf7 gene complemented the lytic function of the K gene of phage P2 and the R gene of phage lambda. A lysozyme assay using supernatants from whole-cell lysates of E. coli cultures harboring plasmid pRAP501 or pGCH2 (both of which express the orf7 gene product) exhibited significant levels of lysozyme activity. The orf6 gene upstream of orf7 has the dual start motif common to the holins encoded by lambdoid S genes, and the orf6 gene product has significant homology to the holins of phages HP1 and P21. When expressed from a tac promoter, the orf6 gene product caused immediate cell death without lysis, while cultures expressing the orf7 gene product grew at normal rates but lysed immediately after the addition of chloroform. Based on this data, we concluded that the Hmb+ phenotype was an artifact resulting from the expression of cloned lysis genes which were detrimental to the E. coli host. The DNA flanking the cloned lysis genes contains orfs that are similar to structural and DNA packaging genes of phage P2. Polyclonal antiserum against Orf2, which is homologous to the major capsid precursor protein (gpN) of phage P2, detected a 40,000-M(r) protein expressed from pRAP401 but did not detect Orf2 in H. somnus, lysates. The phage-like DNA was detected in the serum-susceptible preputial strains HS-124P and HS-127P but was absent from the serum-resistant preputial strains HS-20P and HS-22P. Elucidation of a potential role for this cryptic prophage in the H. somnus life cycle requires more study.
12517979 | CD8 alpha beta T cells are not essential to the pathogenesis of arthritis or colitis in HLA-B27 transgenic rats. The class I MHC allele HLA-B27 is highly associated with the human spondyloarthropathies, but the basis for this association remains poorly understood. Transgenic rats with high expression of HLA-B27 develop a multisystem inflammatory disease that includes arthritis and colitis. To investigate whether CD8alphabeta T cells are needed in this disease, we depleted these cells in B27 transgenic rats before the onset of disease by adult thymectomy plus short-term anti-CD8alpha mAb treatment. This treatment induced profound, sustained depletion of CD8alphabeta T cells, but failed to suppress either colitis or arthritis. To address the role of CD8alpha(+)beta(-) cells, we studied four additional groups of B27 transgenic rats treated with: 1) continuous anti-CD8alpha mAb, 2) continuous isotype-matched control mAb, 3) the thymectomy/pulse anti-CD8alpha regimen, or 4) no treatment. Arthritis occurred in approximately 40% of each group, but was most significantly reduced in severity in the anti-CD8alpha-treated group. In addition to CD8alphabeta T cells, two sizeable CD8alpha(+)beta(-) non-T cell populations were also reduced by the anti-CD8alpha treatment: 1) NK cells, and 2) a CD4(+)CD8(+)CD11b/c(+)CD161a(+)CD172a(+) monocyte population that became expanded in diseased B27 transgenic rats. These data indicate that HLA-B27-retricted CD8(+) T cells are unlikely to serve as effector cells in the transgenic rat model of HLA-B27-associated disease, in opposition to a commonly invoked hypothesis concerning the role of B27 in the spondyloarthropathies. The data also suggest that one or more populations of CD8alpha(+)beta(-) non-T cells may play a role in the arthritis that occurs in these rats.
12595891 | Development of an Ad7 cosmid system and generation of an Ad7deltaE1deltaE3HIV(MN) env/rev recombinant virus. A strategy to circumvent immune responses to adenovirus (Ad) resulting from natural infection or repeated vector administrations involves sequential use of vectors from different Ad serotypes. To further develop an Ad-HIV recombinant AIDS vaccine approach, a replication-defective recombinant Ad from a non-subgroup C virus was required. Using a cosmid system, we generated an Ad7deltaE1deltaE3HIV(MN) env/rev recombinant virus and compared expression of the inserted HIV genes with a similarly constructed replication-competent Ad7deltaE3HIV(MN)env/rev recombinant. Ad7deltaE1deltaE3HIV(MN)env/rev expressed both HIV env and rev gene products. The envelope protein was correctly processed and functional, mediating syncytia formation of Ad7deltaE1deltaE3HIV(MN) env/rev-infected cells and CD4(+) T lymphocytes. Ad7deltaE1deltaE3HIV(MN)env/rev could be amplified on 293-ORF6 cells, containing the E4 ORF6 gene, shown earlier to support production of an Ad7 vector lacking the E1a gene. The utility of this cell line is now extended to the production of replication-defective Ad7 recombinants lacking E1a, E1b, and protein IX genes. Sequential immunizations with Ad-HIV recombinants based in different Ad serotypes have been shown to effectively elicit both humoral and cellular HIV-specific immune responses. The recombinant Ad7deltaE1deltaE3HIV(MN)env/rev will be useful in such AIDS vaccine strategies. Further, these studies have created new cosmid vectors that can be applied to generation of single- or double-deleted Ad7 recombinants with foreign genes inserted into the E1 and/or E3 regions.
12673061 | Metagenomes of complex microbial consortia derived from different soils as sources for novel genes conferring formation of carbonyls from short-chain polyols on Escherichia coli. Metagenomic DNA libraries from three different soil samples (meadow, sugar beet field, cropland) were constructed. The three unamplified libraries comprised approximately 1267000 independent clones and harbored approximately 4.05 Gbp of environmental DNA. Approximately 300000 recombinant Escherichia coli strains of each library per test substrate were screened for the production of carbonyls from short-chain (C2 to C4) polyols such as 1,2-ethanediol, 2,3-butanediol, and a mixture of glycerol and 1,2-propanediol on indicator agar. Twenty-four positive E. COLI clones were obtained during the initial screen. Fifteen of them contained recombinant plasmids, designated pAK201-215, which conferred a stable carbonyl-forming phenotype on E. coli Sequencing revealed that the inserts of pAK201-215 encoded 26 complete and 14 incomplete predicted protein-encoding genes. Most of these genes were similar to genes with unknown functions from other microorganisms or unrelated to any other known gene. The further analysis was focused on the 7 plasmids (pAK204, pAK206, pAK208, and pAK210-213) recovered from the positive clones, which exhibited an NAD(H)-dependent alcohol oxidoreductase activity with polyols or the correlating carbonyls as substrates in crude extracts. Three genes (ORF6, ORF24, and ORF25) conferring this activity were identified during subcloning of the inserts of pAK204, pAK211, and pAK212. The sequences of the three deduced gene products revealed no significant similarities to known alcohol oxidoreductases, but contained putative glycine-rich regions, which are characteristic for binding of nicotinamide cofactors.
22318145 | Tiled microarray identification of novel viral transcript structures and distinct transcriptional profiles during two modes of productive murine gammaherpesvirus 68 infection. We applied a custom tiled microarray to examine murine gammaherpesvirus 68 (MHV68) polyadenylated transcript expression in a time course of de novo infection of fibroblast cells and following phorbol ester-mediated reactivation from a latently infected B cell line. During de novo infection, all open reading frames (ORFs) were transcribed and clustered into four major temporal groups that were overlapping yet distinct from clusters based on the phorbol ester-stimulated B cell reactivation time course. High-density transcript analysis at 2-h intervals during de novo infection mapped gene boundaries with a 20-nucleotide resolution, including a previously undefined ORF73 transcript and the MHV68 ORF63 homolog of Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus vNLRP1. ORF6 transcript initiation was mapped by tiled array and confirmed by 5' rapid amplification of cDNA ends. The ~1.3-kb region upstream of ORF6 was responsive to lytic infection and MHV68 RTA, identifying a novel RTA-responsive promoter. Transcription in intergenic regions consistent with the previously defined expressed genomic regions was detected during both types of productive infection. We conclude that the MHV68 transcriptome is dynamic and distinct during de novo fibroblast infection and upon phorbol ester-stimulated B cell reactivation, highlighting the need to evaluate further transcript structure and the context-dependent molecular events that govern viral gene expression during chronic infection.
