34625540 | Nuclear transporter Importin-13 plays a key role in the oxidative stress transcriptional response. The importin superfamily member Importin-13 is a bidirectional nuclear transporter. To delineate its functional roles, we performed transcriptomic analysis on wild-type and Importin-13-knockout mouse embryonic stem cells, revealing enrichment of differentially expressed genes involved in stress responses and apoptosis regulation. De novo promoter motif analysis on 277 Importin-13-dependent genes responsive to oxidative stress revealed an enrichment of motifs aligned to consensus sites for the transcription factors specificity protein 1, SP1, or Kruppel like factor 4, KLF4. Analysis of embryonic stem cells subjected to oxidative stress revealed that Importin-13-knockout cells were more resistant, with knockdown of SP1 or KLF4 helping protect wild-type embryonic stem cells against stress-induced death. Importin-13 was revealed to bind to SP1 and KLF4 in a cellular context, with a key role in oxidative stress-dependent nuclear export of both transcription factors. The results are integral to understanding stress biology, highlighting the importance of Importin-13 in the stress response.
34649567 | Circular RNA circIPO11 drives self-renewal of liver cancer initiating cells via Hedgehog signaling. BACKGROUND: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most intractable tumors in the world due to its high rate of recurrence and heterogeneity. Liver cancer initiating cells also called cancer stem cells (CSCs) play a critical role in resistance against typical therapy and high tumor-initiating potential. However, the role of the novel circular RNA (circRNA) circIPO11 in the maintenance of liver cancer initiating cells remains elusive. METHODS: CircRNAs highly conserved in humans and mice were identified from 3 primary HCC samples by circRNA array. The expression and function of circIPO11 were further evaluated by Northern blot, limiting dilution xenograft analysis, chromatin isolation by RNA purification-PCR assay (ChIRP) and HCC patient-derived tumor cells (PDC) models. CircIpo11 knockout (KO) mice were generated by a CRISPR/Cas9 technology. RESULTS: CircIPO11 is highly expressed in HCC tumor tissues and liver CSCs. CircIPO11 is required for the self-renewal maintenance of liver CSCs to initiate HCC development. Mechanistically, circIPO11 recruits TOP1 to GLI1 promoter to trigger its transcription, leading to the activation of Hedgehog signaling. Moreover, GLI1 is also highly expressed in HCC tumor tissues and liver CSCs, and TOP1 expression levels positively correlate with the metastasis, recurrence and survival of HCC patients. Additionally, circIPO11 knockout in mice suppresses the progression of chemically induced liver cancer development. CONCLUSION: Our findings reveal that circIPO11 drives the self-renewal of liver CSCs and promotes the propagation of HCC via activating Hedgehog signaling pathway. Antisense oligonucleotides (ASOs) against circIPO11 combined with TOP1 inhibitor camptothecin (CPT) exert synergistic antitumor effect. Therefore, circIPO11 and the Hedgehog signaling pathway may provide new potential targets for the treatment of HCC patients.
34660566 | Pancreatic Cancer Progression Is Regulated by IPO7/p53/LncRNA MALAT1/MiR-129-5p Positive Feedback Loop. Background: Pancreatic cancer is a malignancy with poor prognosis. Importin 7 (IPO7) is a soluble nuclear transport factor, which has been linked to the pathogenesis of several human diseases. However, its role and underlying mechanism in pancreatic cancer are still obscure. Methods: Immunohistochemical staining and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) were performed to determine IPO7 expression in pancreatic cancer tissues and adjacent tissues. Western blot was used to measure IPO7 expression at the protein level in cell lines. Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU), flow cytometry, and Transwell assays were employed to explore the biological functions of IPO7. Subcutaneous xenograft transplanted tumor model and caudal vein injection model in mice were also established to validate the oncogenic role of IPO7. Western blot and qPCR were utilized to detect the regulatory function of IPO7 on p53 and metastasis-associated lung adenocarcinoma transcript 1 (MALAT1), respectively. Interaction between MALAT1 and miR-129-5p and interaction between miR-129-5p and IPO7 were verified by bioinformatics prediction, qPCR, dual-luciferase reporter gene experiment, RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP), and pull-down assay. Results: Upregulation of IPO7 in pancreatic cancer tissues was associated with adverse prognosis of the patients with pancreatic cancer. Knocking down IPO7 remarkably suppressed cancer cell proliferation and metastasis, while it promoted apoptosis. Overexpression of IPO7 facilitated the malignant phenotypes of pancreatic cancer cells. Mechanistically, IPO7 could repress the expression of p53 and induce the expression of MALAT1 but reduce miR-129-5p expression. Furthermore, miR-129-5p was identified as a posttranscriptional regulator for IPO7, and its inhibition led to IPO7 overexpression in pancreatic cancer cells. Conclusion: IPO7 is a novel oncogene for pancreatic cancer, and IPO7/p53/MALAT1/miR-129-5p positive feedback loop facilitates the progression of this deadly disease.
34995814 | The regulation of Msx1 by BMP4/pSmad1/5 signaling is mediated by importin7 in dental mesenchymal cells. Msx1 is essential for the maintenance of the odontogenic fate of dental mesenchymal cells, and is regulated by BMP/Smad1/5 signaling in a Smad4-independent manner. However, the exact co-factors that assist pSmad1/5 entering the nucleus to regulate Msx1 in dental mesenchymal cells are still unknown. Importin7 (IPO7) is one of the important members of importin beta-superfamily, which is mainly responsible for nucleocytoplasmic shuttling of RNAs and proteins, including transcription factors. This study aims to investigate whether IPO7 participates in the nuclear translocation of pSmad1/5 activated by BMP4 to regulate Msx1 expression in mouse dental mesenchymal cells. In the current study, we found that IPO7 was strongly expressed in the mouse dental mesenchymal cells at postnatal day 1 (PN1) both in vitro and in vivo. With BMP4 stimulation, IPO7 showed a translocation from the cytoplasm to the nucleus. Knockdown of IPO7 with siRNA inhibited the nuclear accumulation of pSmad1/5 in response to BMP4 stimulation. Furthermore, the co-immunoprecipitation assay showed pSmad1/5 was a nuclear import cargo of IPO7. Next, knockdown of IPO7 abolished the upregulation of Msx1 induced by BMP4, while overexpression of Smad1 was able to rescue the Msx1 expression. Finally, ChIP and Re-ChIP assay showed IPO7 facilitated the recruitment of pSmad1/5 to the Msx1 promoter. Taken together, our data demonstrated that the regulation of Msx1 by BMP4/pSmad1/5 signaling is mediated by importin7 in mouse dental mesenchymal cells.
35588577 | IPO7 promotes pancreatic cancer progression via regulating ERBB pathway. BACKGROUND: Importin 7 (IPO7) belongs to the Importin beta family and is implicated in the progression of diverse human malignancies. This work is performed to probe the role of IPO7 in pancreatic cancer development and its potential downstream mechanisms. METHODS: IPO7 expression in PC and paracancerous tissues were measured using Immunohistochemistry (IHC) staining and qRT-PCR. Western blotting was utilized to detect the expression level of IPO7 in PC cells and immortalize the pancreatic ductal epithelial cell line. After constructing the IPO7 overexpression and knockdown models, the effect of IPO7 on the proliferation of PC cells was analyzed by the CCK-8 and EdU assay. The migration and invasion of PC cells were examined by wound healing assay and Transwell experiment. The apoptosis rate of PC cells was analyzed by flow cytometry and TUNEL assay. The Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) was used to determine the enrichment pathways of IPO7. The effect of IPO7 on the ERBB2 expression was determined using Western blotting. A xenograft mouse model was applied to investigate the carcinogenic effect of IPO7 in vivo. RESULTS: IPO7 expression was remarkably elevated in the cancer tissues of PC patients. IPO7 overexpression remarkably enhanced PC cell proliferation, migration and invasion and suppressed apoptosis, while knockdown of IPO7 exerted the opposite effect. Mechanistically, IPO7 facilitated the malignant phenotype of PC cells by up-regulating ERBB2 expression. In addition, knockdown of IPO7 inhibited tumor growth and lung metastasis in vivo. CONCLUSION: IPO7 can act as an oncogenic factor and accelerate PC progression by modulating the ERBB pathway.
35922041 | IPO7 Promotes Odontoblastic Differentiation and Inhibits Osteoblastic Differentiation Through Regulation of RUNX2 Expression and Translocation. RUNX2, an important transcriptional factor for both odontoblastic and osteoblastic differentiation, is upregulated during osteoblastic differentiation, but downregulated during late odontoblastic differentiation. However, the specific mechanism of the different RUNX2 expression in bone and dentin remains largely unknown. Importin 7 (IPO7), a member of the karyopherin beta-superfamily, mediates nucleocytoplasmic transport of proteins. In this study, we found that IPO7 was increasingly expressed from pre-odontoblasts to mature odontoblasts. IPO7 expression was increased with odontoblastic differentiation of mouse dental papilla cells (mDPCs) and knockdown of IPO7-inhibited cell differentiation. While in MC3T3-E1 cells, IPO7 was decreased during osteoblastic differentiation and knockdown of IPO7-promoted cell differentiation. In mPDCs, IPO7 was able to bind with some odontoblastic transcription factors, and imported them into the nucleus, but not with RUNX2. Furthermore, IPO7 inhibited the total RUNX2 expression by promoting HDAC6 nuclear localization during odontoblastic differentiation. However, in MC3T3-E1 cells, IPO7 inhibited the nuclear distribution of RUNX2 but did not affect the total protein level of RUNX2. In conclusion, we found that IPO7 promotes odontoblastic differentiation and inhibits osteoblastic differentiation through regulating RUNX2 expression and translocation differently.
36792961 | Reactive Oxygen Species-Induced Inhibition of Odontoblastic Differentiation of Mouse Dental Papilla Cells Is Mediated by Downregulation of Importin 7. Tooth dentin is a crucial tooth structure. The biological process of odontoblast differentiation is essential for formation of normal dentin. Accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) leads to oxidative stress, which can influence the differentiation of several cells. As a member of the importin-beta superfamily, importin 7 (IPO7) is essential for nucleocytoplasmic transport and plays an important role in the processes of odontoblast differentiation and oxidative stress. Nevertheless, the association between ROS, IPO7, and odontoblast differentiation in mouse dental papilla cells (mDPCs) and the underlying mechanisms remain to be elucidated. In this study, we confirmed that ROS suppressed odontoblastic differentiation of mDPCs as well as the expression and nucleocytoplasmic shuttle of IPO7 in cells, while overexpression of IPO7 can rescue these effects. ROS resulted in increased phosphorylation of p38 and cytoplasmic aggregation of phosphorylated p38 (p-p38), which was able to be reversed by overexpression of IPO7. p-p38 interacted with IPO7 in mDPCs without hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) treatment, but in the presence of H2O2, the interaction between p-p38 and IPO7 was significantly decreased. Inhibition of IPO7 increased the expression level and nuclear translocation of p53, which are mediated by cytoplasmic aggregation of p-p38. In conclusion, ROS inhibited odontoblastic differentiation of mDPCs, which is mediated by downregulation and damaged nucleocytoplasmic shuttle of IPO7.
37048077 | Activin and BMP Signalling in Human Testicular Cancer Cell Lines, and a Role for the Nucleocytoplasmic Transport Protein Importin-5 in Their Crosstalk. Testicular germ cell tumours (TGCTs) are the most common malignancy in young men. Originating from foetal testicular germ cells that fail to differentiate correctly, TGCTs appear after puberty as germ cell neoplasia in situ cells that transform through unknown mechanisms into distinct seminoma and non-seminoma tumour types. A balance between activin and BMP signalling may influence TGCT emergence and progression, and we investigated this using human cell line models of seminoma (TCam-2) and non-seminoma (NT2/D1). Activin A- and BMP4-regulated transcripts measured at 6 h post-treatment by RNA-sequencing revealed fewer altered transcripts in TCam-2 cells but a greater responsiveness to activin A, while BMP4 altered more transcripts in NT2/D1 cells. Activin significantly elevated transcripts linked to pluripotency, cancer, TGF-beta, Notch, p53, and Hippo signalling in both lines, whereas BMP4 altered TGF-beta, pluripotency, Hippo and Wnt signalling components. Dose-dependent antagonism of BMP4 signalling by activin A in TCam-2 cells demonstrated signalling crosstalk between these two TGF-beta superfamily arms. Levels of the nuclear transport protein, IPO5, implicated in BMP4 and WNT signalling, are highly regulated in the foetal mouse germline. IPO5 knockdown in TCam-2 cells using siRNA blunted BMP4-induced transcript changes, indicating that IPO5 levels could determine TGF-beta signalling pathway outcomes in TGCTs.
1528302 | Monoclonal antibodies of IPO series against B cell differentiation antigens in leukemia and lymphoma immunophenotyping. Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) of IPO series were developed following immunization with human B cell lines RPMI-1788, Daudi, and spleen cells from a patient with hairy cell leukemia. Reactivity of these mAbs was studied on 19 human cell lines, mononuclear cells of 50 healthy persons and 142 patients with leukemias and lymphomas. It was shown that mAbs IPO-3, IPO-10 and IPO-24 define B cell-specific antigens expressed at different stages of maturation. MAb IPO-3 reacted with activated B lymphocytes. MAb IPO-10 defined the antigen which appears on B cell progenitors following HLA-DR and proceeding CD19, CD10, CD22, CD37; cy mu and CD20 and have been lost during terminal differentiation. The antigen detected by mAb IPO-24 was expressed throughout B cell ontogeny from pre-B cell until the B-blasts. MAb IPO-4 detected an antigen of activated T and B lymphocytes. These mAbs are useful tools in the leukemia and lymphoma phenotypic characterization and classification.
2344819 | [Monoclonal antibodies IPO-4 recognizing antigen-activated human T and B lymphocytes]. Spleen cells from BALB/c mice previously immunized with B-lymphoblastoid cell line RPMI-1788 were fused with P3-X-63-Ag8.653 myeloma cells. Monoclonal antibodies (Ab) IPO-4 were screened on 18 cell lines by the indirect immuno-fluorescence method. Cryostat sections of tissues were stained according to the PAP technique. The Mab IPO-4 were tested for reactivity with blood cells of 17 healthy persons and 102 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia, acute lymphoblastic and myeloblastic leukemias, hairy cell leukemia, multiple myeloma, non-Hodgkin's lymphomas and Hodgkin's disease and mitogen stimulated lymphocytes. MAb IPO-4 were found to be directed against antigen expressed on activated T and B cells.
2373343 | [Monoclonal antibodies of the IPO series in studying and diagnosing malignant lymphoproliferative diseases]. The authors have developed a panel of monoclonal antibodies (MCA) of IPO series (Institute of Problems of Oncology, Kiev). RPMI-1788 cell line, Daudi, as well as splenocytes of a patient with hairy-cell leukemia were used for immunization of mice. It has been shown that IPO-3, IPO-10 and IPO-24 MCA are directed against differentiation antigens of human B-lymphocytes. IPO-4 MCA reveal the antigen of activated T- and B-cells. IPO-5 and IPO-20 MCA recognize HLA-ABC, while IPO-37 a common leucocytic antigen. IPO-38 MCA are directed against the nuclear antigen. The possibilities of using IPO MCA in hematology have been discussed.
3026773 | [Monoclonal antibodies to RPMI-1788 lymphoblastoid line cells]. Monoclonal antibodies IPO-1--IPO-8 against surface antigens of B-lymphoblastoid cell line RPMI-1788 were prepared. Murine hybridomas were obtained by fusion of immune spleen cells and myeloma cells. Screening of specific antibody production was carried out by indirect immunofluorescence. Expression of these antibodies against a panel of 11 human cell lines was carried out by indirect immunofluorescence. Expression of antigens detected with IPO-1--IPO-8 were investigated on peripheral blood cells of healthy individuals and patients with CLL, ALL, myeloma and on lymph node cells of patients with Hodgkin's disease. Specificity of these MoAbs is discussed. IPO-5 is shown to react with the HLA-related determinant. The antibody IPO-3 appears to recognize a differentiation antigen of human B cells.
12364547 | Nuclear import of factors involved in signaling is inhibited in C3H/10T1/2 cells treated with tetradecylthioacetic acid. The non-beta-oxidisable tetradecylthioacetic acid (TTA) is incorporated into cellular membranes when C3H/10T1/2 cells are cultured in TTA-containing medium. We here demonstrate that this alteration in cellular membranes affect the nuclear translocation of proteins involved in signal transduction. Analysis of cellular fatty acid composition shows that TTA and TTA:1n-8 constitute approximately 40 mol% of total fatty acids in cellular/nuclear membranes. Activation of c-fos expression is significantly inhibited in TTA-treated cells but the enzymatic activation of mitogen activated protein kinase (ERK) is not affected. Immunofluorescence and confocal microscopy studies demonstrate that in mitogene-stimulated TTA-treated cells, the translocation of phosphorylated ERK1/2, protein kinase C alpha (PKC alpha), and PKC beta(1) from the cytoplasm into the nucleus is considerably decreased and delayed. Concomitant with a decreased nuclear import, ERK1/2 dephosphorylation is decreased in TTA-treated cells. There is no TTA-induced inhibition of nuclear import of proteins with a classical nuclear localization signal (NLS), as seen by in vitro nuclear import experiments of BSA fused to the NLS from SV40 large T, or in vivo studies of hnRNP A1 nuclear import. The expression levels of Importin alpha, Importin beta, Importin 7, and NTF2 are not altered in the TTA-treated cells. Taken together, our data indicate that TTA treatment causes changes in cellular fatty acid composition that negatively affect NLS-independent mechanisms of protein translocation through the nuclear pore complex.
12634303 | Expression of testicular germ cell genes identified by differential display analysis. Using differential display reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (DDRT-PCR) we identified transcripts encoding for the RNA helicase mDEAH9, Ran binding protein 5 (RanBP5), and 3 novel complementary DNAs designated GC3, GC12, and GC14 in developing testicular germ cells. Sources of RNA for the initial DDRT-PCR screen were purified mouse type A spermatogonia, adult mouse wild-type testis, and W/W(v) mutant mouse testis. We identified cDNA fragments for mDEAH9, RanBP5, GC3, GC12, and GC14 in testis and type A spermatogonia samples from wild-type mice, but not in samples from the W/W(v) mouse testis. These same transcripts were absent in Northern blots of testis RNA from mice treated with busulfan 30 days prior, but were present in testis RNA from wild-type mice at 5, 15, 25, and 40 days of age. The mDEAH9 gene was expressed in many tissues, whereas RanBP5 and GC12 genes were expressed predominantly in the testis with much lower expression in other tissues. The expression of GC3 and GC14 were limited to the testis as evidenced by Northern blot and RT-PCR analyses. The mDEAH9 transcript was not detected in cultured interstitial cells but was found at low levels in cultured immature Sertoli cells, whereas the RanBP5, GC3, GC12, and GC14 transcripts were not detected in either cultured testicular interstitial cells or cultured Sertoli cells. RT-PCR analyses of isolated spermatogonia, pachytene spermatocytes, and round spermatids revealed that mDEAH9, RanBP5, GC3, GC12, and GC14 genes were expressed in all 3 cellular populations. In situ hybridization analyses of testis samples from 40-day-old mice localized expression of mDEAH9, RanBP5, GC3, GC12, and GC14 to the seminiferous tubules. RanBP5 expression appeared to be regulated during the cycle of the seminiferous epithelium, with the highest expression in stages III through VII. Expression of GC14 was greatest in the meiotic germ cell populations.
12655004 | The human Imp3 and Imp4 proteins form a ternary complex with hMpp10, which only interacts with the U3 snoRNA in 60-80S ribonucleoprotein complexes. Ribosome biogenesis requires a vast number of trans-acting factors many of which are required for the chemical modification and processing of the pre-rRNA component. The U3 snoRNP complex is required for the early cleavage steps in pre-rRNA processing. We have cloned cDNAs encoding the human and mouse homologs of the yeast U3 snoRNP-associated proteins Imp3 and Imp4. Both human proteins localize to nucleoli and interact with the U3 snoRNA. The results of complementation experiments show that, in contrast to mouse Imp4, mouse Imp3 can partially alleviate the growth defect of the corresponding yeast null strain, indicating that the role of Imp3 in pre-rRNA processing is evolutionarily conserved. The results of density gradient centrifugation experiments show that, in contrast to hU3-55K, the human Imp3 and Imp4 proteins predominantly interact with the U3 snoRNA in 60-80S ribonucleoprotein complexes. In addition, we have found that hImp3, hImp4 and hMpp10 can form a stable hetero-trimeric complex in vitro, which is generated by direct interactions of both hImp3 and hImp4 with hMpp10. The analysis of hImp3 and hImp4 mutants indicated that their binding to hMpp10 correlates with their nucleolar accumulation, strongly suggesting that the formation of the ternary complex of hImp3, hImp4 and hMpp10 is required for their association with nucleolar components.
17276916 | A role for NuSAP in linking microtubules to mitotic chromosomes. The spindle apparatus is a microtubule (MT)-based machinery that attaches to and segregates the chromosomes during mitosis and meiosis. Self-organization of the spindle around chromatin involves the assembly of MTs, their attachment to the chromosomes, and their organization into a bipolar array. One regulator of spindle self-organization is RanGTP. RanGTP is generated at chromatin and activates a set of soluble, Ran-regulated spindle factors such as TPX2, NuMA, and NuSAP . How the spindle factors direct and attach MTs to the chromosomes are key open questions. Nucleolar and Spindle-Associated Protein (NuSAP) was recently identified as an essential MT-stabilizing and bundling protein that is enriched at the central part of the spindle . Here, we show by biochemical reconstitution that NuSAP efficiently adsorbs to isolated chromatin and DNA and that it can directly produce and retain high concentrations of MTs in the immediate vicinity of chromatin or DNA. Moreover, our data reveal that NuSAP-chromatin interaction is subject to Ran regulation and can be suppressed by Importin alpha (Impalpha) and Imp7. We propose that the presence of MT binding agents such as NuSAP, which can be directly immobilized on chromatin, are critical for targeting MT production to vertebrate chromosomes during spindle self-organization.
17654710 | Subcellular distribution of importins correlates with germ cell maturation. Importin proteins regulate access to the nucleus by recognizing and transporting distinct cargo proteins. Building on studies in Drosophila and Caenorhabditis elegans, we hypothesized that regulated expression and subcellular localization of specific importins may be linked to mammalian gonadal differentiation. We identified distinct developmental and cellular localization patterns for importins beta1, alpha3, alpha4 and RanBP5 (importin beta3) in fetal and postnatal murine testes using Western blotting and immunohistochemistry. Importin beta1 protein is detected in selected germ and somatic cells in fetal gonads, with a striking perinuclear staining evident from embryonic day (E) 14.5 within testicular gonocytes. RanBP5 exhibits age- and gender-specific subcellular localization within fetal gonads. At E12.5, RanBP5 protein is cytoplasmic in gonocytes but predominantly nuclear in oogonia, but by E14.5 RanBP5 appears nuclear in gonocytes and cytoplasmic in oogonia. In postnatal testes, importin alpha3 and alpha4 in spermatocytes, spermatids, and Sertoli cells display cytoplasmic and nuclear localization, respectively.
17682055 | Involvement of importin-4 in the transport of transition protein 2 into the spermatid nucleus. Mammalian spermiogenesis is characterized by a unique chromatin-remodeling process in which histones are replaced by transition protein 1 (TP1), TP2, and TP4, which are further replaced by protamines. We showed previously that the import of TP2 into the haploid spermatid nucleus requires the components of cytosol and ATP. We have now carried out a detailed analysis to characterize the molecular components underlying the nuclear translocation of TP2. Real-time PCR analysis of the expression of different importins in testicular germ cells revealed that importin-4 and importin-beta3 are significantly up-regulated in tetraploid and haploid germ cells. We carried out physical interaction studies as well as an in vitro nuclear transport assay using recombinant TP2 and the nuclear localization signal of TP2 (TP2(NLS)) fused to glutathione S-transferase in digitonin-permeabilized, haploid, round spermatids and identified importin-4 to be involved in the import of TP2. A three-dimensional model of the importin-4 protein was generated using the crystal structure of importin-beta1 as the template. Molecular docking simulations of TP2(NLS) with the importin-4 structure led to the identification of a TP2(NLS) binding pocket spanning the three helices (helices 21 to 23) of importin-4, which was experimentally confirmed by in vitro interaction and import studies with different deletion mutants of importin-4. In contrast to TP2, TP1 import was accomplished through a passive diffusion process.
20805509 | CCAAT/enhancer binding protein delta (C/EBPdelta, CEBPD)-mediated nuclear import of FANCD2 by IPO4 augments cellular response to DNA damage. Maintenance of genomic integrity is an essential cellular function. We previously reported that the transcription factor and tumor suppressor CCAAT/enhancer binding protein delta (C/EBPdelta, CEBPD; also known as \NFIL-6beta\) promotes genomic stability. However, the molecular mechanism was not known. Here, we show that C/EBPdelta is a DNA damage-induced gene, which supports survival of mouse bone marrow cells, mouse embryo fibroblasts (MEF), human fibroblasts, and breast tumor cells in response to the DNA cross-linking agent mitomycin C (MMC). Using gene knockout, protein depletion, and overexpression studies, we found that C/EBPdelta promotes monoubiquitination of the Fanconi anemia complementation group D2 protein (FANCD2), which is necessary for its function in replication-associated DNA repair. C/EBPdelta interacts with FANCD2 and importin 4 (IPO4, also known as \Imp4\ and \RanBP4\) via separate domains, mediating FANCD2-IPO4 association and augmenting nuclear import of FANCD2, a prerequisite for its monoubiquitination. This study identifies a transcription-independent activity of C/EBPdelta in the DNA damage response that may in part underlie its tumor suppressor function. Furthermore, we report a function of IPO4 and nuclear import in the Fanconi anemia pathway of DNA repair.
21840941 | Distinct effects of importin alpha2 and alpha4 on Oct3/4 localization and expression in mouse embryonic stem cells. The cellular repertoire of importin (IMP) proteins that mediates nuclear import of transcription factors and chromatin remodeling agents is critical to processes such as differentiation and transformation. This study identifies for the first time independent roles for specific IMPalphas in murine embryonic stem cells (mESCs), showing that mESC differentiation is accompanied by dynamic changes in the levels of transcripts encoding the IMPs, IMPalpha3, IMPalpha4, IMPbeta1, and IPO5. Of these, only IMPalpha4 was maintained at higher levels in differentiating mESCs, correlating with the finding that IMPalpha4 overexpression induced a significant decrease in Oct3/4 protein levels compared to control transfections. In parallel, IMPalpha4 protein showed a unique and striking shift in subcellular localization from the nucleus to the cytoplasm during differentiation, which is consistent with activation of a role in nuclear import of differentiation factors. Overexpression of a dominant-negative IMPalpha2 isoform, when assessed against adjacent untransfected or IMPalpha2 transfected cells, led to both a significant reduction in endogenous Oct3/4 protein levels and inhibition of Oct3/4 nuclear localization, suggesting that IMPalpha2-mediated delivery of Oct3/4 to the nucleus contributes directly to maintenance of mESC pluripotency. These findings implicate IMPalpha2 and IMPalpha4 in specific but distinct roles in the fate choice between pluripotency and commitment to differentiation.
22646292 | Ligand-dependent nucleo-cytoplasmic shuttling of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors,  PPARalpha  and  PPARgamma. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) play important roles in diverse biological processes including metabolisms of sugars and lipids and differentiation of cells such as adipocytes. PPARs are transcription factors belonging to the ligand-dependent hormone receptor group. To function as transcription factors, PPARs translocate into nucleus where they associate with transcription apparatus. However, mechanisms underlying nuclear transport of PPARs remain enigmatic. We show here that PPARalpha and PPARgamma dynamically shuttle between nucleus and cytoplasm, although they constitutively and predominantly appear in nucleus. With a series of truncation mutants, we identify that PPAR nuclear transport is mediated by at least two nuclear localization signals (NLSs) in DNA-binding domain (DBD)-hinge and activation function 1 (AF1) regions and their respective receptors including importinalpha/beta, importin 7, and an unidentified receptor. PPARs also harbor two nuclear export signals in DBD and ligand-binding domain regions that are recognized by distinct export receptors, calreticulin and CRM1. Moreover, we show that nuclear-cytoplasmic shuttling of PPARs is regulated by respective PPAR ligands and Ca2+ concentration. Taken together, we suggest that the multiple pathways for the nuclear-cytoplasmic transport of PPARs regulate the biological functions of PPARs in response to external signals.
22730302 | NMDAR signaling facilitates the IPO5-mediated nuclear import of CPEB3. Cytoplasmic polyadenylation element-binding protein (CPEB)3 is a nucleocytoplasm-shuttling RNA-binding protein and predominantly resides in the cytoplasm where it represses target RNA translation. When translocated into the nucleus, CPEB3 binds to Stat5b and downregulates Stat5b-dependent transcription. In neurons, the activation of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) accumulates CPEB3 in the nucleus and redistributes CPEB3 in the nucleocytoplasmic compartments to control gene expression. Nonetheless, it is unclear which karyopherin drives the nuclear import of CPEB3 and which transport direction is most affected by NMDA stimulation to increase the nuclear pool of CPEB3. Here, we have identified that the karyopherins, IPO5 and CRM1, facilitate CPEB3 translocation by binding to RRM1 and a leucine-containing motif of CPEB3, respectively. NMDAR signaling increases RanBP1 expression and reduces the level of cytoplasmic GTP-bound Ran. These changes enhance CPEB3-IPO5 interaction, which consequently accelerates the nuclear import of CPEB3. This study uncovers a novel NMDA-regulated import pathway to facilitate the nuclear translocation of CPEB3.
24924195 | Nuclear to cytoplasmic shuttling of ERK promotes differentiation of muscle stem/progenitor cells. The transition between the proliferation and differentiation of progenitor cells is a key step in organogenesis, and alterations in this process can lead to developmental disorders. The extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK) signaling pathway is one of the most intensively studied signaling mechanisms that regulates both proliferation and differentiation. How a single molecule (e.g. ERK) can regulate two opposing cellular outcomes is still a mystery. Using both chick and mouse models, we shed light on the mechanism responsible for the switch from proliferation to differentiation of head muscle progenitors and implicate ERK subcellular localization. Manipulation of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-ERK signaling pathway in chick embryos in vitro and in vivo demonstrated that blockage of this pathway accelerated myogenic differentiation, whereas its activation diminished it. We next examined whether the spatial subcellular localization of ERK could act as a switch between proliferation (nuclear ERK) and differentiation (cytoplasmic ERK) of muscle progenitors. A myristoylated peptide that blocks importin 7-mediated ERK nuclear translocation induced robust myogenic differentiation of muscle progenitor/stem cells in both head and trunk. In the mouse, analysis of Sprouty mutant embryos revealed that increased ERK signaling suppressed both head and trunk myogenesis. Our findings, corroborated by mathematical modeling, suggest that ERK shuttling between the nucleus and the cytoplasm provides a switch-like transition between proliferation and differentiation of muscle progenitors. 
25250856 | Astrocytic exportin-7 responds to ischemia through mediating LKB1 translocation from the nucleus to the cytoplasm. The superfamily of importin-beta-related proteins is the largest class of nuclear transport receptors and can be generally divided into importins and exportins according to their transport directions. Eleven importins and seven exportins have been identified, and the expression patterns of both classes are important for their functions in nucleocytoplasmic transport activities. This study demonstrates that all of the importins (importin-beta; transportin-1, -2, and -3; and importin-4, -5, -7, -8, -9, -11, and -13) and all the exportins (exportin-1, -2, -4, -5, -6, -7, and -t) are differentially expressed in the cerebral cortex, cerebellum, hippocampus, and brainstem and in primary cultures of cerebral cortical astrocytes and neurons. For astrocytes, we observed that different importins and exportins displayed different expression changes during 0-6 hr of ischemia treatment, especially an increase of both the mRNA and the protein of exportin-7. Immunostaining showed that exportin-7 accumulated inside the nucleus and around the nuclear envelope. In addition, we noticed an increased cytoplasmic distribution of one of the cargo proteins of exportin-7, LKB1, an important element in maintaining energy homeostasis. This increased cytoplasmic distribution was accompanied by an increased expression of exportin-7 under ischemia in astrocytes. We demonstrate that exportin-7 responds to ischemia in astrocytes and that this response involves translocation of LKB1, a protein that plays important roles during metabolic stress, from the nucleus to the cytoplasm.
25782991 | RNA binding protein Musashi-1 directly targets Msi2 and Erh during early testis germ cell development and interacts with IPO5 upon translocation to the nucleus. Controlled gene regulation during gamete development is vital for maintaining reproductive potential. During the process of gamete development, male germ cells experience extended periods of inactive transcription despite requirements for continued growth and differentiation. Spermatogenesis therefore provides an ideal model to study the effects of posttranscriptional control on gene regulation. During spermatogenesis posttranscriptional regulation is orchestrated by abundantly expressed RNA-binding proteins. One such group of RNA-binding proteins is the Musashi family, previously identified as a critical regulator of testis germ cell development and meiosis in Drosophila and also shown to be vital to sperm development and reproductive potential in the mouse. We focus in depth on the role and function of the vertebrate Musashi ortholog Musashi-1 (MSI1). Through detailed expression studies and utilizing our novel transgenic Msi1 testis-specific overexpression model, we have identified 2 unique RNA-binding targets of MSI1 in spermatogonia, Msi2 and Erh, and have demonstrated a role for MSI1 in translational regulation. We have also provided evidence to suggest that nuclear import protein, IPO5, facilitates the nuclear translocation of MSI1 to the transcriptionally silenced XY chromatin domain in meiotic pachytene spermatocytes, resulting in the release of MSI1 RNA-binding targets. This firmly establishes MSI1 as a master regulator of posttranscriptional control during early spermatogenesis and highlights the significance of the subcellular localization of RNA binding proteins in relation to their function.
25855727 | Temperature-Sensitive Mutants in the Influenza A Virus RNA Polymerase: Alterations in the PA Linker Reduce Nuclear Targeting of the PB1-PA Dimer and Result in Viral Attenuation. UNLABELLED: The influenza virus RNA-dependent RNA polymerase catalyzes genome replication and transcription within the cell nucleus. Efficient nuclear import and assembly of the polymerase subunits PB1, PB2, and PA are critical steps in the virus life cycle. We investigated the structure and function of the PA linker (residues 197 to 256), located between its N-terminal endonuclease domain and its C-terminal structured domain that binds PB1, the polymerase core. Circular dichroism experiments revealed that the PA linker by itself is structurally disordered. A large series of PA linker mutants exhibited a temperature-sensitive (ts) phenotype (reduced viral growth at 39.5 C versus 37 C/33 C), suggesting an alteration of folding kinetic parameters. The ts phenotype was associated with a reduced efficiency of replication/transcription of a pseudoviral reporter RNA in a minireplicon assay. Using a fluorescent-tagged PB1, we observed that ts and lethal PA mutants did not efficiently recruit PB1 to reach the nucleus at 39.5 C. A protein complementation assay using PA mutants, PB1, and beta-importin IPO5 tagged with fragments of the Gaussia princeps luciferase showed that increasing the temperature negatively modulated the PA-PB1 and the PA-PB1-IPO5 interactions or complex stability. The selection of revertant viruses allowed the identification of different types of compensatory mutations located in one or the other of the three polymerase subunits. Two ts mutants were shown to be attenuated and able to induce antibodies in mice. Taken together, our results identify a PA domain critical for PB1-PA nuclear import and that is a \hot spot\ to engineer ts mutants that could be used to design novel attenuated vaccines. IMPORTANCE: By targeting a discrete domain of the PA polymerase subunit of influenza virus, we were able to identify a series of 9 amino acid positions that are appropriate to engineer temperature-sensitive (ts) mutants. This is the first time that a large number of ts mutations were engineered in such a short domain, demonstrating that rational design of ts mutants can be achieved. We were able to associate this phenotype with a defect of transport of the PA-PB1 complex into the nucleus. Reversion substitutions restored the ability of the complex to move to the nucleus. Two of these ts mutants were shown to be attenuated and able to produce antibodies in mice. These results are of high interest for the design of novel attenuated vaccines and to develop new antiviral drugs.
26399853 | Changing expression and subcellular distribution of karyopherins during murine oogenesis. Mammalian oocyte growth and development is driven by a strict program of gene expression that relies on the timely presence of transcriptional regulators via nuclear pores. By targeting specific cargos for nucleo-cytoplasmic transport, karyopherin (KPN) proteins are key to the relocation of essential transcription factors and chromatin-remodelling factors into and out of the nucleus. Using multiple complementary techniques, here we establish that KPNA genes and proteins are dynamically expressed and relocalised throughout mouse oogenesis and folliculogenesis. Of the KPNAs examined (Kpna1, Kpna2, Kpna3, Kpna4, Kpna6, Kpna7, Kpnb1, Ipo5 and Xpo1), all were expressed in the embryonic ovary with up-regulation of protein levels concomitant with meiotic entry for KPNA2, accompanied by the redistribution of the cellular localisation of KPNA2 and XPO1. In contrast, postnatal folliculogenesis revealed significant up-regulation of Kpna1, Kpna2, Kpna4, Kpna6 and Ipo5 and down-regulation of Kpnb1, Kpna7 and Xpo1 at the primordial to primary follicle transition. KPNAs exhibited different localisation patterns in both oocytes and granulosa cells during folliculogenesis, with three KPNAs--KPNA1, KPNA2 and IPO5--displaying marked enrichment in the nucleus by antral follicle stage. Remarkably, varied subcellular expression profiles were also identified in isolated pre-ovulatory oocytes with KPNAs KPNA2, KPNB1 and IPO5 detected in the cytoplasm and at the nuclear rim and XPO1 in cytoplasmic aggregates. Intriguingly, meiotic spindle staining was also observed for KPNB1 and XPO1 in meiosis II eggs, implying roles for KPNAs outside of nucleo-cytoplasmic transport. Thus, we propose that KPNAs, by targeting specific cargoes, are likely to be key regulators of oocyte development.
26585299 | Connexin Controls Cell-Cycle Exit and Cell Differentiation by Directly Promoting Cytosolic Localization and Degradation of E3 Ligase Skp2. Connexins and connexin channels play important roles in cell growth/differentiation and tumorigenesis. Here, we identified a relationship between a connexin molecule and a critical cell-cycle regulator. Our data show that connexin (Cx) 50 regulated lens cell-cycle progression and differentiation by modulating expression of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27/p57 and E3 ubiquitin ligase Skp2. Cx50 directly interacted with and retained Skp2 in the cytosol by masking the nuclear targeting domain of Skp2, and this effect was supported by an increased nuclear localization of Skp2, disruption of Skp2 interaction with importin-7, and decreased levels of p27/p57 in mouse lenses lacking Cx50. As a result, Cx50 increased auto-ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of Skp2. A mutation (V362E) on the C terminus of Cx50 disrupted the interaction between Cx50 and Skp2 and completely abolished such effects. Therefore, this study identifies a role for connexins in regulating cell-cycle modulators and, consequently, cell growth and differentiation. 
30745319 | Nuclear import of the DSCAM-cytoplasmic domain drives signaling capable of inhibiting synapse formation. DSCAM and DSCAML1 are immunoglobulin and cell adhesion-type receptors serving important neurodevelopmental functions including control of axon growth, branching, neurite self-avoidance, and neuronal cell death. The signal transduction mechanisms or effectors of DSCAM receptors, however, remain poorly characterized. We used a human ORFeome library to perform a high-throughput screen in mammalian cells and identified novel cytoplasmic signaling effector candidates including the Down syndrome kinase Dyrk1a, STAT3, USP21, and SH2D2A. Unexpectedly, we also found that the intracellular domains (ICDs) of DSCAM and DSCAML1 specifically and directly interact with IPO5, a nuclear import protein of the importin beta family, via a conserved nuclear localization signal. The DSCAM ICD is released by gamma-secretase-dependent cleavage, and both the DSCAM and DSCAML1 ICDs efficiently translocate to the nucleus. Furthermore, RNA sequencing confirms that expression of the DSCAM as well as the DSCAML1 ICDs alone can profoundly alter the expression of genes associated with neuronal differentiation and apoptosis, as well as synapse formation and function. Gain-of-function experiments using primary cortical neurons show that increasing the levels of either the DSCAM or the DSCAML1 ICD leads to an impairment of neurite growth. Strikingly, increased expression of either full-length DSCAM or the DSCAM ICD, but not the DSCAML1 ICD, significantly decreases synapse numbers in primary hippocampal neurons. Taken together, we identified a novel membrane-to-nucleus signaling mechanism by which DSCAM receptors can alter the expression of regulators of neuronal differentiation and synapse formation and function. Considering that chromosomal duplications lead to increased DSCAM expression in trisomy 21, our findings may help uncover novel mechanisms contributing to intellectual disability in Down syndrome.
31288861 | IPO5 promotes the proliferation and tumourigenicity of colorectal cancer cells by mediating RASAL2 nuclear transportation. BACKGROUND: Karyopherin nuclear transport receptors play important roles in tumour development and drug resistance and have been reported as potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets for tumour treatment. However, IPO5, one of the karyopherin nuclear transport receptor family members, remains largely uncharacterized in tumour progression. METHODS: The TCGA data, quantitative reverse transcription-PCR (qRT-PCR), western blotting, and IHC analyses were used to detect IPO5 expression in CRC tissues. A series of in vivo and in vitro experiments was utilized to demonstrate the function of IPO5 in CRC tissues. Mass spectrometry (MS), CO-IP technology, subcellular fractionation, and immunofluorescence were utilized to investigate the possible mechanisms of CRC. RESULTS: IPO5 was highly expressed and positively correlated with the clinicopathological characteristics of colorectal cancer tissues. Functional experiments indicated that IPO5 could promote the development of CRC. Mechanistically, we screened RASAL2, one cargo of IPO5, and further confirmed that IPO5 bound to the NLS sequence of RASAL2, mediating RASAL2 nuclear translocation and inducing RAS signal activation, thereby promoting the progression of CRC. CONCLUSIONS: Together, our results indicate that IPO5 is overexpressed in colorectal cancer cells. By transporting RASAL2, IPO5 may play a crucial role in CRC.
31325559 | Evidence that melatonin downregulates Nedd4-1 E3 ligase and its role in cellular survival. Indolamine melatonin structurally resembles non-covalent proteasome inhibitors; however, the role of ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS) in neuronal survival and how melatonin carries out UPS inhibition remain largely unknown. With the use of melatonin treated cells, we evaluated the expression of Nedd4-1, an E3 ligase, how melatonin regulates its activity and its relationship with neuronal survival. Nedd4-1 was upregulated in the hypoxic condition in both control and Nedd4-1 overexpressed cells and melatonin treatment reversed its expression in both normoxic and hypoxic conditions, which was associated with increased cellular survival. Melatonin had no effect on the expression of Nedd4-1 at mRNA level. However, when melatonin was administered along with protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide, protein level of Nedd4-1 was further reduced, indicating that melatonin possibly downregulates Nedd4-1 after its synthesis. Notably, co-immunoprecipitation analyses followed by Liquid chromatography-Mass Spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) revealed that melatonin may dissociate ribosomal proteins, such as RS19, RL23A, and nucleophosmin from Nedd4-1, while 40S ribosomal protein S7 and 60S ribosomal protein L35 came into contact with Nedd4-1 upon melatonin treatment. By using IPA analyses, we obtained further data indicated novel target molecules of melatonin in hypoxic conditions, including OTOF, SF3B2, IPO5, ST13, FGFR3, Mx1/Mx2, playing roles in RNA splicing and trafficking, growth factor and interferon signaling. Here, we described a new insight into the role of melatonin in UPS functioning by proposing a molecular mechanism through which melatonin regulates Nedd4-1.
31520166 | The modification of ferroptosis and abnormal lipometabolism through overexpression and knockdown of potential prognostic biomarker perilipin2 in gastric carcinoma. BACKGROUND: To investigate the biological relationship, mechanism between perilipin2 and the occurrence, advancement of gastric carcinoma, and explore the mechanism of lipid metabolism disorder leading to gastric neoplasm, and propose that perilipin2 is presumably considered as a potential molecular biomarker of gastric carcinoma. METHODS: RNA-seq was applied to analyze perilipin2 and differentially expressed genes modulated by perilipin2 in neoplastic tissues of both perilipin2 overexpression and knockdown groups in vivo. The mechanism was discovered and confirmed by Rt-qPCR, immunoblotting, immunohistochemistry, staining and microassay, respectively. Cellular function experiments were performed by flow cytometry, CCK8, clonogenic assay, etc. RESULTS: Overexpression and knockdown of perilipin2 augmented the proliferation and apoptosis of gastric carcinoma cell lines SGC7901 and MGC803, respectively. The neoplastic cells with perilipin2-overexpression obtained more conspicuously rapid growth than knockdown group in vivo, and perilipin2 affected the proliferation and apoptosis of gastric carcinoma cells by modulating the related genes:acyl-coa synthetase long-chain family member 3, arachidonate 15-lipoxygenase, microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 alpha, pr/set domain 11 and importin 7 that were participated in Ferroptosis pathway. Moreover, RNA-seq indicated perilipin2 was an indispensable gene and protein in the suppression of Ferroptosis caused by abnormal lipometabolism in gastric carcinoma. CONCLUSION: Our study expounded the facilitation of perilipin2 in regulating the proliferation and apoptosis of gastric carcinoma cells by modification in Ferroptosis pathway, and we interpreted that the mechanism of gastric neoplasm caused by obesity, we also discovered that pr/set domain 11 and importin 7 are novel transcription factors relevant to gastric carcinoma. Furthermore, perilipin2 probably serves not only as a diagnostic biomarker, but also a new therapeutic target.
32661323 | Inhibiting Importin 4-mediated nuclear import of CEBPD enhances chemosensitivity by repression of PRKDC-driven DNA damage repair in cervical cancer. Cervical cancer (CC) remains highest in the mortality of female reproductive system cancers, while cisplatin (CDDP) resistance is the one of main reasons for the lethality. Preceding evidence has supported that karyopherins are associated with chemoresistance. In this study, we simultaneously compared CDDP-incomplete responders with CDDP-complete responders of CC patients and CDDP-insensitive CC cell lines with CDDP-sensitive group. We finally identified that DNA-PKcs (PRKDC) was related to CDDP sensitivity after overlapping in CC sample tissues and CC cell lines. Further functional assay revealed that targeting PRKDC by shRNA and NU7026 (specific PRKDC inhibitor) could enhance CDDP sensitivity in vitro and in vivo, which was mediated by impairing DNA damage repair pathway in CC. Mechanistically, we found that PRKDC was transcriptionally upregulated by CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein delta (CEBPD), while intriguingly, CDDP treatment strengthened the transcriptional activity of CEBPD to PRKDC. We further disclosed that Importin 4 (IPO4) augmented the nuclear translocation of CEBPD through nuclear localization signals (NLS) to activate PRKDC-mediated DNA damage repair in response to CDDP. Moreover, we demonstrated that IPO4 and CEBPD knockdown improved CDDP-induced cytotoxicity in vitro and in vivo. Together, we shed the novel insight into the role of IPO4 in chemosensitivity and provide a clinical translational potential to enhance CC chemosensitivity since the IPO4-CEBPD-PRKDC axis is actionable via NU7026 (PRKDC inhibitor) or targeting IPO4 in combination with CDDP.
33973712 | DDX10 promotes human lung carcinoma proliferation by U3 small nucleolar ribonucleoprotein IMP4. BACKGROUND: Lung cancer is a common tumor and a leading cause of death worldwide. DEAD/H box RNA helicases (DDX) include several family members which regulate mRNA translation in cancer cells. In this study, we demonstrated that DEAD/H box RNA helicase 10 (DDX10) was significantly upregulated in lung cancer tissues compared with adjacent nontumor tissues. METHODS: DDX10 expression was knocked down with shRNA in order to investigate the impact on A549 lung cancer cell growth and related molecular mechanisms in vitro and in vivo. DDX10 expression in lung cancer was assessed using online databases and patient samples. RESULTS: DDX10 knockdown significantly inhibited the proliferation of lung cancer cells in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, the bioinformatic tool indicated the putative downstream protein U3 small nucleolar ribonucleoprotein 4 (IMP4). Our data showed a positive correlation between IMP4 and DDX10. We found that IMP4 overexpression could reverse the effect of DDX10 knockdown on the proliferation and apoptosis of A549 cells. CONCLUSIONS: The findings of this study suggest that DDX10/IMP4 might be a novel target for lung cancer diagnosis and treatment.
34536747 | Role of vitamin D/VDR nuclear translocation in down-regulation of NF-kappaB/NLRP3/caspase-1 axis in lupus nephritis. BACKGROUND: Vitamin D receptor (VDR) and NLRP3 inflammasome play critical roles in lupus nephritis (LN) pathogenesis. AIM OF THE STUDY: This study explored the therapeutic effect of VDR agonist on LN and its molecular mechanism to inhibit NLRP3 signalling. METHODS: C57BL/6 mice, lupus-prone MRL/lpr mice, and VDR agonist paricacitol-treated MRL/lpr mice (300 ng/kg/mouse per dose, 5 times/week for 8 weeks from 8 weeks old) were used to assess kidney histopathology and measure proteinuria, serum anti-ds-DNA antibody and expression of NF-kappaB/NLRP3/caspase-1/IL-1beta/IL-18 axis. We used mouse renal tubular epithelial cells (mRTECs) to identify protein-protein interactions and examine the effects of paricalcitol. RESULTS AND CONCLUSION: LN pathogenesis decreased after paricalcitol treatment. We observed a marked improvement in renal pathology and a time-dependent decrease urine protein and serum anti-dsDNA antibody levels. In 16-week-old MRL/lpr LN mice, the upregulated expression of NLRP3/caspase-1/IL-1beta/IL-18 axis was significantly downregulated after paricalcitol treatment. Paricalcitol can reverse the apoptosis induced by anti-dsDNA antibody via the NF-kappaB/NLRP3/caspase-1/IL-1beta/IL-18 axis in mRTECs. Furthermore, paricalcitol suppressed NF-kappaB nuclear translocation by competitively binding to importin-4. In summary, the VDR agonist can alleviate LN by modulating the NF-kappaB/NLRP3/caspase-1/IL-1beta/IL-18 axis and suppressing the NF-kappaB nuclear translocation.
35199158 | Disulfiram enhances meropenem activity against NDM- and IMP-producing carbapenem-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii infections. OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the in vitro and in vivo efficacy of the FDA-approved drug disulfiram in combination with meropenem against MBL-expressing carbapenem-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii. METHODS: Chequerboard and antibiotic resistance reversal analysis were performed using 25 clinical isolates producing different MBLs. Three representative strains harbouring NDM, IMP or non-MBL genes were subjected to a time-kill assay to further evaluate this synergistic interaction. Dose-dependent inhibition by disulfiram was assessed to determine IC50 for NDM-1, IMP-7, VIM-2 and KPC-2. Further, to test the efficacy of meropenem monotherapy and meropenem in combination with disulfiram against NDM- and IMP-harbouring A. baumannii, an experimental model of systemic infection and pneumonia was developed using BALB/c female mice. RESULTS: Chequerboard and antibiotic reversal assay displayed a synergistic interaction against MBL-expressing A. baumannii strains with 4- to 32-fold reduction in MICs of meropenem. In time-kill analysis, meropenem and disulfiram exhibited synergy against NDM- and IMP-producing carbapenem-resistant A. baumannii (CRAb) isolates. In vitro dose-dependent inhibition analysis showed that disulfiram inhibits NDM-1 and IMP-7 with IC50 values of 1.5 +- 0.6 and 16.25 +- 1.6 muM, respectively, with slight or no inhibition of VIM-2 (<20%) and KPC-2. The combination performed better in the clearance of bacterial load from the liver and spleen of mice infected with IMP-expressing CRAb. In the pneumonia model, the combination significantly decreased the bacterial burden of NDM producers compared with monotherapy. CONCLUSIONS: These results strongly suggest that the combination of disulfiram and meropenem represents an effective treatment option for NDM- and IMP-associated CRAb infections.
35225687 | Phenotypic and Genotypic Characterization of a Hypervirulent Carbapenem-Resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae ST17-KL38 Clinical Isolate Harboring the Carbapenemase IMP-4. Carbapenem-resistant hypervirulent Klebsiella pneumoniae (CR-hvKP) is a threat to global public health. We characterized a sequence type 17 (ST17) K. pneumoniae clinical isolate that was resistant to carbapenems and belonged to serotype KL38/O2. Its complete genome is comprised of a 5.1-Mb chromosome and two conjugative plasmids. The 52,578-bp N-type plasmid pXH210-IMP contains the blaIMP-4 carbapenemase gene and the quinolone resistance gene qnrS1. The 272,742-bp FII(K)-9:FIB(K)-10 plasmid pXH210-AMV carries an array of genes that confer resistance to aminoglycosides, chloramphenicol, quinolones, tetracycline, sulfonamides, trimethoprim, arsenic, copper, and silver. However, the XH210 genome otherwise lacks the genes that are considered characteristic markers of hypervirulence in K. pneumoniae. The virulence potential of XH210 was assessed using a random forest algorithm predictive model, as well as Galleria mellonella and mouse infection models. The results of these were concordant and suggested that XH210 is hypervirulent and therefore a CR-hvKP strain. This worrying convergence of virulence and clinically significant antibiotic resistance is particularly concerning given the absence of typical hypervirulence markers. Further investigations are required to understand the virulence mechanisms of XH210 and to improve the diagnostics of hypervirulent K. pneumoniae. IMPORTANCE The combination of drug resistance and hypervirulence significantly limits the available treatment options for life-threatening infections caused by multidrug-resistant hvKP, especially CR-hvKP. To date, research on IMP-producing CR-hvKP is extremely scarce, and the virulence mechanisms of CR-hvKP are far more complicated and diverse than has been described in the literature so far. In this study, we characterized the tigecycline-resistant and IMP-4 carbapenemase-producing ST17 K. pneumoniae isolate XH210 from a human blood sample. Importantly, XH210 exhibits hypervirulence but does not possess traits that are frequently associated with the phenotype, highlighting the urgent need to improve identification of potentially hypervirulent isolates and enhance active surveillance of CR-hvKP strains to prevent their dissemination.
36120598 | IPO5 Mediates EMT and Promotes Esophageal Cancer Development through the RAS-ERK Pathway. Objective: In the development of many tumors, IPO5, as a member of the nuclear transporter family, exerts a significant function. Also, IPO5 is used as a therapeutic target for tumors based on some reports. By studying IPO5 expression in esophageal cancer tissues, the mechanism associated with IPO5 improving esophageal cancer development was explored in this study. Methods: To gain differentially expressed genes, this study utilized mRNA microarray and TCGA database for comprehensive analysis of esophageal cancer tissues and normal esophageal cancer tissues, and then the differentially expressed gene IPO5 was screened by us. To assess esophageal cancer patients' prognosis, this study also applied the Kaplan-Meier analysis, and we also conducted the GSEA enrichment analysis to investigate IPO5-related signaling pathways. This study performed TISIDB and TIMER online analysis tools to study the correlation between IPO5 and immune regulation and infiltration. We took specimens of esophageal cancer from patients and detected the expression of IPO5 in tumor and normal tissues by immunohistochemistry. The IPO5 gene-silenced esophageal cancer cell model was constructed by lentivirus transfection. Through the Transwell invasion assay, CCK-8 assay, and cell scratch assay, this study investigated the effects of IPO5 on cell propagation, invasion, and transfer. What is more, we identified the influences of IPO5 on the cell cycle through flow cytometry and established a subcutaneous tumor-forming model in nude mice. Immunohistochemistry was used to verify the expression of KI-67, and this study detected the modifications of cell pathway-related proteins using Western blot and applied EMT-related proteins to explain the mechanism of esophageal cancer induced by IPO5. Results: According to database survival analysis, IPO5 high-expression patients had shorter disease-free survival than IPO5 low-expression patients. Compared to normal tissues, the IPO5 expression in cancer tissues was significantly higher in clinical trials (P < 0.05). Through TISIDB and TIMER database studies, we found that IPO5 could affect immune regulation, and the age of IPO5 expression grows with the increase of immune infiltration level. The IPO5 expression in esophageal cancer cells was higher than normal, especially in ECA109 and OE33 cells (P < 0.01). After knocking out IPO5 gene expression, cell proliferation capacity and invasion capacity were reduced (P < 0.05) and decreased (P < 0.01) in the IPO5-interfered group rather than the negative control group. The growth cycle of esophageal carcinoma cells was arrested in the G2/M phase after IPO5 gene silencing (P < 0.01). Tumor-forming experiments in nude mice confirmed that after IPO5 deletion, the tumor shrank, the expression of KI67 decreased, the downstream protein expression level of the RAS pathway decreased after sh-IPO5 interference (P < 0.01), and the level of EMT marker delined (P < 0.05). Conclusion: In esophageal cancer, IPO5 is highly expressed and correlates with survival rate. Esophageal cancer cell growth and migration were significantly affected by the inhibition of IPO5 in vitro and in vivo. IPO5 mediates EMT using the RAS-ERK signaling pathway activation and promotes esophageal cancer cell development in vivo and in vitro.
37004548 | Inhibition of importin-7 attenuates ventilator-induced lung injury by targeting nuclear translocation of p38. BACKGROUND: The ability of p38 to phosphorylate substrates in the nucleus and the role of nuclear p38 in the regulation of inflammation have focused attention on the subcellular localization of the kinase. Although it is clear that p38 shuttles to the nucleus upon stimulation, the mechanisms that regulate p38 nuclear input in response to mechanical stretch remain to be determined. METHODS: Cyclic stretch (CS)-induced nuclear translocation of p38 was determined by Western blotting and immunofluorescence. The p38 interacting protein was identified using endogenous pull-down and protein binding assays. The potential role of importin-7 (Imp7) in CS-induced nuclear translocation of p38 and p38-dependent gene expression was confirmed using a series of in vitro and in vivo experiments. Furthermore, we tested the therapeutic potential of intratracheal administration of Imp7 siRNA-loaded nanoparticles in the ventilator-induced lung injury (VILI) mouse model. RESULTS: We show that CS induced phosphorylation-dependent nuclear translocation of p38, which required the involvement of microtubules and dynein. Endogenous pull-down assay revealed Imp7 to be a potential p38-interacting protein, and the direct interaction between p38 and Imp7 was confirmed by in vitro and in vivo binding assays. Furthermore, silencing Imp7 inhibited CS-induced nuclear translocation of p38 and subsequent cytokine production. Notably, intratracheal administration of Imp7 siRNA nanoparticles attenuated lung inflammation and histological damage in the VILI mouse model. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings uncover a key role for Imp7 in the process of p38 nuclear import after CS stimulation and highlight the potential of preventing p38 nuclear translocation in treatment of VILI.
37321470 | Oridonin inhibits the occurrence and development of colorectal cancer by reversing the Warburg effect via reducing PKM2 dimer formation and preventing its entry into the nucleus. BACKGROUND: The Warburg effect is prevalent in human cancer. Oridonin (ORI) has excellent anticancer effects, but its exact anticancer mechanism is still unclear. METHODS: CCK8, EdU, and flow cytometry assay were performed to detect the effect of ORI on cell viability, proliferation and apoptosis, respectively. RNA-seq was carried out to search the underlying mechanisms. Total PKM2, dimeric PKM2, nuclear PKM2 was detected by Western blot. The epidermal growth factor receptor/extracellular signal regulated kinase (EGFR/ERK) signaling was assayed. The binding ability of Importin-alpha5 to PKM2 was performed by Co-IP experiments. The effect of ORI combined with cysteine (Cys) or fructose-1, 6-diphosphate (FDP) on cancer cells was detected. Mouse xenograft model was established to confirm the molecular mechanisms in vivo. RESULTS: ORI inhibited viability, proliferation and promoted apoptosis of CRC cells. RNA-seq revealed ORI attenuated the Warburg effect in cancer cells. ORI reduced dimeric PKM2 and prevented it from entering the nucleus. ORI did not affect the EGFR/ERK signaling, but reduced Importin-alpha5 binding to the PKM2 dimer. Cys or FDP reversed or enhanced the effect of ORI. Animal model assay confirmed the molecular mechanisms in vivo. CONCLUSIONS: Our study first shows that ORI could have anticancer activity by inhibiting the Warburg effect as a novel activator of PKM2.
37328841 | LRRC6 regulates biogenesis of motile cilia by aiding FOXJ1 translocation into the nucleus. BACKGROUND: LRRC6 is an assembly factor for dynein arms in the cytoplasm of motile ciliated cells, and when mutated, dynein arm components remained in the cytoplasm. Here, we demonstrate the role of LRRC6 in the active nuclear translocation of FOXJ1, a master regulator for cilia-associated gene transcription. METHODS: We generated Lrrc6 knockout (KO) mice, and we investigated the role of LRRC6 on ciliopathy development by using proteomic, transcriptomic, and immunofluorescence analysis. Experiments on mouse basal cell organoids confirmed the biological relevance of our findings. RESULTS: The absence of LRRC6 in multi-ciliated cells hinders the assembly of ODA and IDA components of cilia; in this study, we showed that the overall expression of proteins related to cilia decreased as well. Expression of cilia-related transcripts, specifically ODA and IDA components, dynein axonemal assembly factors, radial spokes, and central apparatus was lower in Lrrc6 KO mice than in wild-type mice. We demonstrated that FOXJ1 was present in the cytoplasm and translocated into the nucleus when LRRC6 was expressed and that this process was blocked by INI-43, an importin alpha inhibitor. CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, these results hinted at the LRRC6 transcriptional regulation of cilia-related genes via the nuclear translocation of FOXJ1. Video Abstract.
37432596 | KPNA2 Silencing, Regulated by E3 Ubiquitin Ligase FBXW7, Alleviates Endothelial Dysfunction and Inflammation Through Inhibiting the Nuclear Translocation of p65 and IRF3: A Possible Therapeutic Approach for Atherosclerosis. Atherosclerosis (AS), characterized by a maladaptive inflammatory response, is one of the most common causes of death among the elderly. Karyopherin subunit alpha 2 (KPNA2), a member of the nuclear transport protein family, has been reported to play a pro-inflammatory role in various pathological processes by regulating the nuclear translocation of pro-inflammatory transcription factors. However, the function of KPNA2 in AS remains unknown. ApoE-/- mice were fed high-fat diets for 12 weeks to establish an AS mice model. Human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) were treated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to establish an AS cell model. We found that KPNA2 was upregulated in the aortic roots of atherosclerotic mice and LPS-stimulated cells. KPNA2 knockdown inhibited LPS-induced secretion of pro-inflammatory factors and monocyte-endothelial adhesion in HUVECs, whereas KPNA2 overexpression exerted the opposite effects. p65 and interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3), the transcription factors known to regulate the transcription of pro-inflammatory genes, interacted with KPNA2, and their nuclear translocations were blocked following KPNA2 silencing. Furthermore, we found that KPNA2 protein level was decreased by E3 ubiquitin ligase F-box and WD repeat domain containing 7 (FBXW7), which was downregulated in the atherosclerotic mice. FBXW7 overexpression induced ubiquitination with subsequent proteasomal degradation of KPNA2. Meanwhile, the effects of KPNA2 deficiency on atherosclerotic lesions were further confirmed by in vivo experiments. Taken together, our study indicates that KPNA2 downregulation, regulated by FBXW7, may alleviate endothelial dysfunction and related inflammation in the progression of AS by suppressing the nuclear translocation of p65 and IRF3.
37456838 | Loss of the importin Kpna2 causes infertility in male mice by disrupting the translocation of testis-specific transcription factors. Karyopherins mediate the movement between the nucleus and cytoplasm of specific proteins in diverse cellular processes. Through a loss-of-function approach, we here examine the role of Karyopherin Subunit Alpha 2 (Kpna2) in spermatogenesis. Knockout male mice exhibited reduced body size and sperm motility, increased sperm abnormalities, and led to the dysregulation of testis gene expression and ultimately to infertility. Impaired mRNA expression mainly affected clusters of genes expressed in spermatids and spermatocytes. Downregulated genes included a set of genes that participate in cell adhesion and extracellular matrix (ECM) organization. We detected both the enrichment of some transcription factors that bind to regions around transcription start sites of downregulated genes and the impaired transport of specific factors to the nucleus of spermatid cells. We propose that Kpna2 is essential in the seminiferous tubules for promoting the translocation of testis-specific transcription factors that control the expression of genes related to ECM organization.
37466313 | HBV confers innate immune evasion through triggering HAT1/acetylation of H4K5/H4K12/miR-181a-5p or KPNA2/cGAS-STING/IFN-I signaling. Viral immune evasion is crucial to the pathogenesis of hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection. However, the role of HBV in the modulation of innate immune evasion is poorly understood. A liver-specific histone acetyltransferase 1 (Hat1) knockout (KO) mouse model and HAT1 KO cell line were established. Immunohistochemistry staining, Western blot analysis, Southern blot analysis, Northern blot analysis, immunofluorescence assays, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction, and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays were performed in the livers of mouse models, primary human hepatocytes, HepG2-NTCP, and Huh7 and HepG2 cell lines. HBV-elevated HAT1 increased the expression of miR-181a-5p targeting cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) messenger RNA 3' untranslated regions through modulating acetylation of H4K5 and H4K12 in vitro and in vivo, leading to the inability of cGAS-stimulator of interferon genes (STING) pathway and type I interferon (IFN-I) signaling. Additionally, HBV-elevated HAT1 promoted the expression of KPNA2 through modulating acetylation of H4K5 and H4K12 in the system, resulting in nuclear translocation of cGAS, HBx was responsible for the events by HAT1, suggesting that HBV-elevated HAT1 controls the cGAS-STING pathway and IFN-I signaling to modulate viral innate immune evasion. HBV confers innate immune evasion through triggering HAT1/acetylation of H4K5/H4K12/miR-181a-5p or KPNA2/cGAS-STING/IFN-I signaling. Our finding provides new insights into the mechanism by which HBV drives viral innate immune evasion.
37473892 | Pin1 inhibitor API-1 sensitizes BRAF-mutant thyroid cancers to BRAF inhibitors by attenuating HER3-mediated feedback activation of MAPK/ERK and PI3K/AKT pathways. BRAFV600E mutation is one of the most therapeutic targets in thyroid cancers. However, its specific inhibitors have shown little clinical benefit because they can reactivate the MAPK/ERK and PI3K/AKT pathways by feedback upregulating the transcription of HER3. Peptidyl-prolyl cis/trans isomerase Pin1 has been proven to be closely associated with tumor progression. Here, we aimed to determine antitumor activity of Pin1 inhibitor API-1 in thyroid cancer and its effect on cellular response to BRAF inhibitors. The results showed that API-1 exhibited strong antitumor activity against thyroid cancer. Meanwhile, it improved the response of BRAF-mutant thyroid cancer cells to BRAF inhibitor PLX4032 and there was a synergistic effect between them. Specially, a combination therapy of API-1 and PLX4032 significantly inhibited cell proliferation, colony formation, and the growth of xenograft tumors as well as induced cell apoptosis in BRAF-mutant thyroid cancer cells compared with API-1 or PLX4032 monotherapy. Similar results were also observed in transgenic mice with BrafV600E-driven thyroid cancer. Mechanistically, API-1 enhanced XPO5 ability to export pre-microRNA 20a (pre-miR-20a) from the nucleus to cytoplasm, thereby promoting the maturation of miR-20a-5p. Further studies showed that miR-20a-5p specifically targeted and down-regulated HER3, thereby blocking the reactivation of MAPK/ERK and PI3K/AKT signaling pathways caused by PLX4032. These results, taken together, demonstrate that Pin1 inhibitor API-1 significantly improves the sensitivity of BRAF-mutant thyroid cancer cells to PLX4032. Thus, this study not only determines the potential antitumor activity of Pin1 inhibitor API-1 in thyroid cancer but also offers an alternative therapeutic strategy for BRAF-mutant thyroid cancers by a combination of Pin1 inhibitor and BRAF kinase inhibitor.
37516020 | Systemic cytokines inhibition with Imp7 siRNA nanoparticle ameliorates gut injury in a mouse model of ventilator-induced lung injury. Mechanical ventilation (MV) may negatively affect the lungs and cause the release of inflammatory mediators, resulting in extra-pulmonary organ dysfunction. Studies have revealed systemically elevated levels of proinflammatory cytokines in animal models of ventilator-induced lung injury (VILI); however, whether these cytokines have an effect on gut injury and the mechanisms involved remain unknown. In this study, VILI was generated in mice with high tidal volume mechanical ventilation (20 ml/kg). Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), and IL-6 concentrations in serum and gut measured by ELISA showed significant elevation in the VILI mice. Significant increases in gut injury and PANoptosis were observed in the VILI mice, which were positively correlated with the serum levels of TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, and IL-6. The VILI mice displayed intestinal barrier defects, decreased expressions of occludin and zonula occludin-1 (ZO-1), and increased expression of claudin-2 and the activation of myosin light chain (MLC). Importantly, intratracheal administration of Imp7 siRNA nanoparticle effectively inhibited cytokines production and protected mice from VILI-induced gut injury. These data provide evidence of systemic cytokines contributing to gut injury following VILI and highlight the possibility of targeting cytokines inhibition via Imp7 siRNA nanoparticle as a potential therapeutic intervention for alleviating gut injury following VILI.
37541772 | CRIP1 fosters MDSC trafficking and resets tumour microenvironment via facilitating NF-kappaB/p65 nuclear translocation in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. OBJECTIVE: Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is among the most immunosuppressive tumour types. The tumour immune microenvironment (TIME) is largely driven by interactions between immune cells and heterogeneous tumour cells. Here, we aimed to investigate the mechanism of tumour cells in TIME formation and provide potential combination treatment strategies for PDAC patients based on genotypic heterogeneity. DESIGN: Highly multiplexed imaging mass cytometry, RNA sequencing, mass cytometry by time of flight and multiplex immunofluorescence staining were performed to identify the pro-oncogenic proteins associated with low immune activation in PDAC. An in vitro coculture system, an orthotopic PDAC allograft tumour model, flow cytometry and immunohistochemistry were used to explore the biological functions of cysteine-rich intestinal protein 1 (CRIP1) in tumour progression and TIME formation. RNA sequencing, mass spectrometry and chromatin immunoprecipitation were subsequently conducted to investigate the underlying mechanisms of CRIP1. RESULTS: Our results showed that CRIP1 was frequently upregulated in PDAC tissues with low immune activation. Elevated CRIP1 expression induced high levels of myeloid-derived suppressor cell (MDSC) infiltration and fostered an immunosuppressive tumour microenvironment. Mechanistically, we primarily showed that CRIP1 bound to nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-kappaB)/p65 and facilitated its nuclear translocation in an importin-dependent manner, leading to the transcriptional activation of CXCL1/5. PDAC-derived CXCL1/5 facilitated the chemotactic migration of MDSCs to drive immunosuppression. SX-682, an inhibitor of CXCR1/2, blocked tumour MDSC recruitment and enhanced T-cell activation. The combination of anti-PD-L1 therapy with SX-682 elicited increased CD8+T cell infiltration and potent antitumor activity in tumour-bearing mice with high CRIP1 expression. CONCLUSIONS: The CRIP1/NF-kappaB/CXCL axis is critical for triggering immune evasion and TIME formation in PDAC. Blockade of this signalling pathway prevents MDSC trafficking and thereby sensitises PDAC to immunotherapy.
37733267 | Canonical Wnt signaling promotes HSC glycolysis and liver fibrosis through an LDH-A/HIF-1alpha transcriptional complex. BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Aerobic glycolysis reprogramming occurs during HSC activation, but how it is initiated and sustained remains unknown. We investigated the mechanisms by which canonical Wnt signaling regulated HSC glycolysis and the therapeutic implication for liver fibrosis. APPROACH AND RESULTS: Glycolysis was examined in HSC-LX2 cells upon manipulation of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling. Nuclear translocation of lactate dehydrogenase A (LDH-A) and its interaction with hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha) were investigated using molecular simulation and site-directed mutation assays. The pharmacological relevance of molecular discoveries was intensified in primary cultures, rodent models, and human samples. HSC glycolysis was enhanced by Wnt3a but reduced by beta-catenin inhibitor or small interfering RNA. Wnt3a-induced rapid transactivation and high expression of LDH-A dependent on TCF4. Wnt/beta-catenin signaling also stimulated LDH-A nuclear translocation through importin beta2 interplay with a noncanonical nuclear location signal of LDH-A. Mechanically, LDH-A bound to HIF-1alpha and enhanced its stability by obstructing hydroxylation-mediated proteasome degradation, leading to increased transactivation of glycolytic genes. The Gly28 residue of LDH-A was identified to be responsible for the formation of the LDH-A/HIF-1alpha transcription complex and stabilization of HIF-1alpha. Furthermore, LDH-A-mediated glycolysis was required for HSC activation in the presence of Wnt3a. Results in vivo showed that HSC activation and liver fibrosis were alleviated by HSC-specific knockdown of LDH-A in mice. beta-catenin inhibitor XAV-939 mitigated HSC activation and liver fibrosis, which were abrogated by HSC-specific LDH-A overexpression in fibrotic mice. CONCLUSIONS: Inhibition of HSC glycolysis by targeting Wnt/beta-catenin signaling and LDH-A had therapeutic promise for liver fibrosis.
37984724 | RNA-binding protein hnRNPU regulates multiple myeloma resistance to selinexor. Multiple myeloma (MM) is an incurable haematological cancer. Selinexor is the first-in-class selective inhibitor of nuclear export (SINE) and was newly approved for the treatment of MM. Until now, very few studies have investigated selinexor resistance in MM. Heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein U (hnRNPU) is an RNA-binding protein and a component of hnRNP complexes. Here we found that hnRNPU regulates MM sensitivity to selinexor. Cell apoptosis assays were performed to compare selinexor-induced cell death in control knockdown (CTR-KD) and hnRNPU knockdown (hnR-KD) MM cells. HnRNPU knockdown-induced nuclear protein retention was examined by proteomics array. HnRNPU-conferred mRNA translation regulation was evaluated by sucrose gradient assay, RNA electrophoresis mobility shift assay, and RNA pull-down assay. We found that hnR-KD MM cells were more sensitive to selinexor-induced cell death in vitro and in mouse model. MM patients who responded to selinexor had relatively low hnRNPU expression. In brief, hnRNPU comprehensively regulated MM sensitivity to selinexor by affecting the localization of LTV1 and NMD3, and mRNA translation of MDM2 and RAN, which were involved in XPO1-mediated nuclear export of ribosome subunits and tumor suppressors. Our discoveries indicate that hnRNPU might be a possible marker to categorize MM patients for the use of Selinexor.
37986737 | FBXO24 ensures male fertility by preventing abnormal accumulation of membraneless granules in sperm flagella. Ribonucleoprotein (RNP) granules are membraneless electron-dense structures rich in RNAs and proteins, and involved in various cellular processes. Two RNP granules in male germ cells, intermitochondrial cement and the chromatoid body (CB), are associated with PIWI-interacting RNAs (piRNAs) and are required for transposon silencing and spermatogenesis. Other RNP granules in male germ cells, the reticulated body and CB remnants, are also essential for spermiogenesis. In this study, we disrupted FBXO24, a testis-enriched F-box protein, in mice and found numerous membraneless electron-dense granules accumulated in sperm flagella. Fbxo24 knockout (KO) mice exhibited malformed flagellar structures, impaired sperm motility, and male infertility, likely due to the accumulation of abnormal granules. The amount and localization of known RNP granule-related proteins were not disrupted in Fbxo24 KO mice, suggesting that the accumulated granules were distinct from known RNP granules. Further studies revealed that RNAs and two importins, IPO5 and KPNB1, abnormally accumulated in Fbxo24 KO spermatozoa. In addition, IPO5 and KPNB1 were recruited to stress granules, RNP complexes, when cells were treated with oxidative stress or a proteasome inhibitor. These results suggest that FBXO24 plays a critical role in preventing the accumulation of importins and RNP granules in sperm flagella.
38065227 | Structural basis of nuclear transport for NEIL DNA glycosylases mediated by importin-alpha. NEIL glycosylases, including NEIL1, NEIL2, and NEIL3, play a crucial role in the base excision DNA repair pathway (BER). The classical importin pathway mediated by importin alpha/beta and cargo proteins containing nuclear localization sequences (NLS) is the most common transport mechanism of DNA repair proteins to the nucleus. Previous studies have identified putative NLSs located at the C-terminus of NEIL3 and NEIL1. Crystallographic, bioinformatics, calorimetric (ITC), and fluorescence assays were used to investigate the interaction between NEIL1 and NEIL3 putative NLSs and importin-alpha (Impalpha). Our findings showed that NEIL3 contains a typical cNLS, with medium affinity for the major binding site of Impalpha. In contrast, crystallographic analysis of NEIL1 NLS revealed its binding to Impalpha, but with high B-factors and a lack of electron density at the linker region. ITC and fluorescence assays indicated no detectable affinity between NEIL1 NLS and Impalpha. These data suggest that NEIL1 NLS is a non-classical NLS with low affinity to Impalpha. Additionally, we compared the binding mode of NEIL3 and NEIL1 with Mus musculus Impalpha to human isoforms HsImpalpha1 and HsImpalpha3, which revealed interesting binding differences for HsImpalpha3 variant. NEIL3 is a classical medium affinity monopartite NLS, while NEIL1 is likely to be an unclassical low-affinity bipartite NLS. The base excision repair pathway is one of the primary systems involved in repairing DNA. Thus, understanding the mechanisms of nuclear transport of NEIL proteins is crucial for comprehending the role of these proteins in DNA repair and disease development.
38131168 | Molecular analysis of XPO1 inhibitor and gemcitabine-nab-paclitaxel combination in KPC pancreatic cancer mouse model. BACKGROUND: The majority of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) patients experience disease progression while on treatment with gemcitabine and nanoparticle albumin-bound (nab)-paclitaxel (GemPac) necessitating the need for a more effective treatment strategy for this refractory disease. Previously, we have demonstrated that nuclear exporter protein exportin 1 (XPO1) is a valid therapeutic target in PDAC, and the selective inhibitor of nuclear export selinexor (Sel) synergistically enhances the efficacy of GemPac in pancreatic cancer cells, spheroids and patient-derived tumours, and had promising activity in a phase I study. METHODS: Here, we investigated the impact of selinexor-gemcitabine-nab-paclitaxel (Sel-GemPac) combination on LSL-KrasG12D/+ ; LSL-Trp53R172H/+ ; Pdx1-Cre (KPC) mouse model utilising digital spatial profiling (DSP) and single nuclear RNA sequencing (snRNAseq). RESULTS: Sel-GemPac synergistically inhibited the growth of the KPC tumour-derived cell line. The Sel-GemPac combination reduced the 2D colony formation and 3D spheroid formation. In the KPC mouse model, at a sub-maximum tolerated dose (sub-MTD) , Sel-GemPac enhanced the survival of treated mice compared to controls (p < .05). Immunohistochemical analysis of residual KPC tumours showed re-organisation of tumour stromal architecture, suppression of proliferation and nuclear retention of tumour suppressors, such as Forkhead Box O3a (FOXO3a). DSP revealed the downregulation of tumour promoting genes such as chitinase-like protein 3 (CHIL3/CHI3L3/YM1) and multiple pathways including phosphatidylinositol 3'-kinase-Akt (PI3K-AKT) signalling. The snRNAseq demonstrated a significant loss of cellular clusters in the Sel-GemPac-treated mice tumours including the CD44+ stem cell population. CONCLUSION: Taken together, these results demonstrate that the Sel-GemPac treatment caused broad perturbation of PDAC-supporting signalling networks in the KPC mouse model. HIGHLIGHTS: The majority of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) patients experience disease progression while on treatment with gemcitabine and nanoparticle albumin-bound (nab)-paclitaxel (GemPac). Exporter protein exportin 1 (XPO1) inhibitor selinexor (Sel) with GemPac synergistically inhibited the growth of LSL-KrasG12D/+; LSL-Trp53R172H/+; Pdx1-Cre (KPC) mouse derived cell line and enhanced the survival of mice. Digital spatial profiling shows that Sel-GemPac causes broad perturbation of PDAC-supporting signalling in the KPC model.
38158756 | Structural determinants of phosphorylation-dependent nuclear transport of HCMV DNA polymerase processivity factor UL44. Human cytomegalovirus DNA polymerase processivity factor UL44 is transported into the nucleus by importin (IMP) alpha/beta through a classical nuclear localization signal (NLS), and this region is susceptible to cdc2-mediated phosphorylation at position T427. Whilst phosphorylation within and close to the UL44 NLS regulates nuclear transport, the details remain elusive, due to the paucity of structural information regarding the role of negatively charged cargo phosphate groups. We addressed this issue by studying the effect of UL44 T427 phosphorylation on interaction with several IMPalpha isoforms by biochemical and structural approaches. Phosphorylation decreased UL44/IMPalpha affinity 10-fold, and a comparative structural analysis of UL44 NLS phosphorylated and non-phosphorylated peptides complexed with mouse IMPalpha2 revealed the structural rearrangements responsible for phosphorylation-dependent inhibition of UL44 nuclear import.
38336912 | A Kpna1-deficient psychotropic drug-induced schizophrenia model mouse for studying gene-environment interactions. KPNA1 is a mediator of nucleocytoplasmic transport that is abundantly expressed in the mammalian brain and regulates neuronal differentiation and synaptic function. De novo mutations in Kpna1 have been identified using genome-wide association studies in humans with schizophrenia; however, it remains unclear how KPNA1 contributes to schizophrenia pathogenesis. Recent studies have suggested a complex combination of genetic and environmental factors that are closely related to psychiatric disorders. Here, we found that subchronic administration of phencyclidine, a psychotropic drug, induced vulnerability and behavioral abnormalities consistent with the symptoms of schizophrenia in Kpna1-deficient mice. Microarray assessment revealed that the expression levels of dopamine d1/d2 receptors, an RNA editing enzyme, and a cytoplasmic dynein component were significantly altered in the nucleus accumbens brain region in a gene-environment (G x E) interaction-dependent manner. Our findings demonstrate that Kpna1-deficient mice may be useful as a G x E interaction mouse model for psychiatric disorders and for further investigation into the pathogenesis of such diseases and disorders.
38369216 | Imp7 siRNA nanoparticles protect against mechanical ventilation-associated liver injury by inhibiting HMGB1 production and NETs formation. Mechanical ventilation (MV) has the potential to induce extra-pulmonary organ damage by adversely affecting the lungs and promoting the secretion of inflammatory cytokines. High-mobility group box 1 protein (HMGB1) is a pro-inflammatory mediator in ventilator-induced lung injury (VILI), but its effect on MV-associated liver injury and the mechanisms are poorly understood. In the present study, mice were subjected to high-volume MV (20 ml/kg) to induce VILI. MV-induced HMGB1 prompted neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) formation and PANoptosis within the liver. Inhibiting NETs formation by DNase I or PAD4 inhibitor, or by HMGB1 neutralizing ameliorated the liver injury. HMGB1 activated neutrophils to form NETs through TLR4/MyD88/TRAF6 pathway. Importantly, Importin7 siRNA nanoparticles inhibited HMGB1 release and protected against MV-associated liver injury. These data provide evidence of MV-induced HMGB1 prompted NETs formation and PANoptosis in the liver via the TLR4/MyD88/TRAF6 pathway. HMGB1 is a potential therapeutic target for MV-associated liver injury.
38570500 | Cold-induced FOXO1 nuclear transport aids cold survival and tissue storage. Cold-induced injuries severely limit opportunities and outcomes of hypothermic therapies and organ preservation, calling for better understanding of cold adaptation. Here, by surveying cold-altered chromatin accessibility and integrated CUT&Tag/RNA-seq analyses in human stem cells, we reveal forkhead box O1 (FOXO1) as a key transcription factor for autonomous cold adaptation. Accordingly, we find a nonconventional, temperature-sensitive FOXO1 transport mechanism involving the nuclear pore complex protein RANBP2, SUMO-modification of transporter proteins Importin-7 and Exportin-1, and a SUMO-interacting motif on FOXO1. Our conclusions are supported by cold survival experiments with human cell models and zebrafish larvae. Promoting FOXO1 nuclear entry by the Exportin-1 inhibitor KPT-330 enhances cold tolerance in pre-diabetic obese mice, and greatly prolongs the shelf-life of human and mouse pancreatic tissues and islets. Transplantation of mouse islets cold-stored for 14 days reestablishes normoglycemia in diabetic mice. Our findings uncover a regulatory network and potential therapeutic targets to boost spontaneous cold adaptation.
9704038 | Phagocyte chemoattractant receptors. Myeloid cells are attracted and activated by a variety of chemoattractants that bind to G protein-coupled receptors. In the past few years, the receptors for the classical chemoattractants (fMLF, C5a, PAF) and the chemotactic cytokines, known as C-X-C and C-C chemokines, have been cloned from myeloid cells. This review briefly describes recent advances in structure-function relationships of chemotactic receptors in human leukocytes as well as activation of signaling pathways and regulation of receptor function. In neutrophils, the binding of chemoattractants mainly activates the Gi2 protein inducing PIP2 hydrolysis and activation of the MAP kinase pathway. The C-C chemokine receptor, CC CKR5, and a chemokine receptor homologue, named fusin, have been shown to be the major cofactors for HIV-1 entry in macrophages and T cells. Recent studies suggest that the phosphorylation of chemoattractant receptors is a key event that regulates their biological function.
11046145 | Acetylation by PCAF enhances CIITA nuclear accumulation and transactivation of major histocompatibility complex class II genes. The class II transactivator (CIITA), the master regulator of the tissue-specific and interferon gamma-inducible expression of major histocompatibility complex class II genes, synergizes with the histone acetylase coactivator CBP to activate gene transcription. Here we demonstrate that in addition to CBP, PCAF binds to CIITA both in vivo and in vitro and enhances CIITA-dependent transcriptional activation of class II promoters. Accordingly, E1A mutants defective for PCAF or CBP interaction show reduced ability in suppressing CIITA activity. Interestingly, CBP and PCAF acetylate CIITA at lysine residues within a nuclear localization signal. We show that CIITA is shuttling between the nucleus and cytoplasm. The shuttling behavior and activity of the protein are regulated by acetylation: overexpression of PCAF or inhibition of cellular deacetylases by trichostatin A increases the nuclear accumulation of CIITA in a manner determined by the presence of the acetylation target lysines. Furthermore, mutagenesis of the acetylated residues reduces the transactivation ability of CIITA. These results support a novel function for acetylation, i.e., to regulate gene expression by stimulating the nuclear accumulation of an activator.
11363820 | CKR-5--understanding the news. 
12517958 | The GTP-binding domain of class II transactivator regulates its nuclear export. The transcriptional coactivator class II transactivator (CIITA), although predominantly localized in the nucleus, is also present in the cytoplasm. The subcellular distribution of CIITA is actively regulated by the opposing actions of nuclear export and import. In this study, we show that nuclear export is negatively regulated by the GTP-binding domain (GBD; aa 421-561) of CIITA: mutation or deletion of the GBD markedly increased export of CIITA from the nucleus. Remarkably, a CIITA GBD mutant binds CRM1/exportin significantly better than does wild-type CIITA, leading to the conclusion that GTP is a negative regulator of CIITA nuclear export. We also report that, in addition to the previously characterized N- and C-terminal nuclear localization signal elements, there is an additional N-terminal nuclear localization activity, present between aa 209 and 222, which overlaps the proline/serine/threonine-rich domain of CIITA. Thus, fine-tuning of the nucleocytoplasmic distribution of coactivator proteins involved in transcription is an active and dynamic process that defines a novel mechanism for controlling gene regulation.
12799413 | The role of IFNgamma nuclear localization sequence in intracellular function. Intracellularly expressed interferon gamma (IFNgamma) has been reported to possess biological activity similar to that of IFNgamma added to cells. This study addresses the mechanisms for such similar biological effects. Adenoviral vectors were used to express a non-secreted form of human IFNgamma or a non-secreted mutant form in which a previously demonstrated nuclear localization sequence (NLS), 128KTGKRKR134, was replaced with alanines at K and R positions. With the vector expressing non-secreted wild-type IFNgamma, biological responses normally associated with extracellular IFNgamma, such as antiviral activity and MHC class I upregulation, were observed, although the mutant IFNgamma did not possess biological activity. Intracellular human IFNgamma possessed biological activity in mouse L cells, which do not recognize extracellularly added human IFNgamma. Thus, the biological activity was not due to leakage of IFNgamma to the surroundings and subsequent interaction with the receptor on the cell surface. Biological function was associated with activation of STAT1alpha and nuclear translocation of IFNgamma, IFNGR1 and STAT1alpha. Immunoprecipitation of cellular extracts with antibody to the nuclear transporter NPI-1 showed the formation of a complex with IFNgamma-IFNGR1-STAT1alpha. To provide the physiological basis for these effects we show that extracellularly added IFNgamma possesses intracellular signaling activity that is NLS dependent, as suggested by our previous studies, and that this activity occurs via the receptor-mediated endocytosis of IFNgamma. The data are consistent with previous observations that the NLS of extracellularly added IFNgamma plays a role in IFNgamma signaling.
15128813 | Mycobacterium tuberculosis-induced CXCR4 and chemokine expression leads to preferential X4 HIV-1 replication in human macrophages. Opportunistic infections such as pulmonary tuberculosis (TB) increase local HIV-1 replication and mutation. As AIDS progresses, alteration of the HIV-1 gp120 V3 sequence is associated with a shift in viral coreceptor use from CCR5 (CD195) to CXCR4 (CD184). To better understand the effect of HIV/TB coinfection, we screened transcripts from bronchoalveolar lavage cells with high density cDNA arrays and found that CXCR4 mRNA is increased in patients with TB. Surprisingly, CXCR4 was predominately expressed on alveolar macrophages (AM). Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection of macrophages in vitro increased CXCR4 surface expression, whereas amelioration of disease reduced CXCR4 expression in vivo. Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid from TB patients had elevated levels of CCL4 (macrophage inflammatory protein-1beta), CCL5 (RANTES), and CX3CL1 (fractalkine), but not CXCL12 (stromal-derived factor-1alpha). We found that M. tuberculosis infection of macrophages in vitro increased viral entry and RT of CXCR4-using [corrected] HIV-1, but not of CCR5-using [corrected] HIV-1. Lastly, HIV-1 derived from the lung contains CD14, suggesting that they were produced in AM. Our results demonstrate that TB produces a permissive environment for replication of CXCR4-using virus by increasing CXCR4 expression in AM and for suppression of CCR5-using HIV-1 by increasing CC chemokine expression. These changes explain in part why TB accelerates the course of AIDS. CXCR4 inhibitors are a rational therapeutic approach in HIV/TB coinfection.
16192402 | Expression of nuclear transport importins beta 1 and beta 3 is regulated during rodent spermatogenesis. Spermatogenic differentiation requires progressive gene expression changes, and proteins required for this must be transported into the nucleus. Many of these contain a nuclear localization signal and are likely to be transported by importin protein family members, each of which recognizes and transports distinct cargo proteins. We hypothesized that importins, as modulators of protein nuclear access, would display distinct expression profiles during spermatogenesis, indicating their potential to regulate key steps in cellular differentiation. This was tested throughout testicular development in rodents. Real-time PCR analysis of postnatal mouse testes revealed changing expression levels of Knpb1 (encoding importin beta 1) and Ranbp5 (encoding beta 3) mRNAs, with Knpb1 highest at 26 days postpartum and Ranbp5 highest in Day 26 and adult testis. Their distinctive cellular expression patterns visualized using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry were identical in mouse and rat testes where examined. Within the seminiferous epithelium, Knpb1 mRNA and importin beta1 protein were detected within mitotic Sertoli and germ cells during fetal and early postnatal development, becoming restricted to spermatogonia and spermatocytes in adulthood. Importin beta 3 protein in fetal germ cells displayed a striking difference in intracellular localization between male and female gonads. In adult testes, Ranbp5 mRNA was detected in round spermatids and importin beta 3 protein in elongating spermatids. This is the first comprehensive in situ demonstration of developmentally regulated synthesis of nuclear transport components. The contrasting expression patterns of importins beta 1 and 3 identify them as candidates for regulating nuclear access of factors required for developmental switches.
17143267 | PGC7/Stella protects against DNA demethylation in early embryogenesis. DNA methylation is an important means of epigenetic gene regulation and must be carefully controlled as a prerequisite for normal early embryogenesis. Although global demethylation occurs soon after fertilization, it is not evenly distributed throughout the genome. Genomic imprinting and epigenetic asymmetry between parental genomes, that is, delayed demethylation of the maternal genome after fertilization, are clear examples of the functional importance of DNA methylation. Here, we show that PGC7/Stella, a maternal factor essential for early development, protects the DNA methylation state of several imprinted loci and epigenetic asymmetry. After determining that PGC7/Stella binds to Ran binding protein 5 (RanBP5; a nuclear transport shuttle protein), mutant versions of the two proteins were used to examine exactly when and where PGC7/Stella functions within the cell. It is likely that PGC7/Stella protects the maternal genome from demethylation only after localizing to the nucleus, where it maintains the methylation of several imprinted genes. These results demonstrate that PGC7/Stella is indispensable for the maintenance of methylation involved in epigenetic reprogramming after fertilization.
18245089 | Mitogen-activated protein kinase ERK1/2 regulates the class II transactivator. The expression of major histocompatibility class II genes is necessary for proper antigen presentation and induction of an immune response. This expression is initiated by the class II transactivator, CIITA. The establishment of the active form of CIITA is controlled by a series of post-translational events, including GTP binding, ubiquitination, and dimerization. However, the role of phosphorylation is less clearly defined as are the consequences of phosphorylation on CIITA activity and the identity of the kinases involved. In this study we show that the extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 (ERK1/2) interact directly with CIITA, targeting serine residues in the amino terminus of the protein, including serine 288. Inhibition of this phosphorylation by dominant-negative forms of ERK or by treatment of cells with the ERK inhibitor PD98059 resulted in the increase in CIITA-mediated gene expression from a class II promoter, enhanced the nuclear concentration of CIITA, and impaired its ability to bind to the nuclear export factor, CRM1. In contrast, inhibition of ERK1/2 activity had little effect on serine-to-alanine mutant forms of CIITA. These data suggest a model whereby ERK1/2-mediated phosphorylation of CIITA down-regulates CIITA activity by priming it for nuclear export, thus providing a means for cells to tightly regulate the extent of antigen presentation.
18624354 | Endogenous presentation of a nuclear antigen on MHC class II by autophagy in the absence of CRM1-mediated nuclear export. Accumulating evidence suggests that intracellular antigens are endogenously presented on MHC class II, but it is still unknown whether antigens within different subcellular compartments are presented with similar efficiency, and via the same or different pathways. We have previously shown that endogenous MHC class II presentation of the cytosolic bacterial antigen neomycin phosphotransferase II (NeoR) is mediated by autophagy. Here, we addressed whether secluding NeoR from this cytoplasmic pathway by directing the protein into the cell nucleus (NucNeoR) would affect antigen presentation. Unexpectedly, NucNeoR was presented at least as efficiently as the cytosolic version of the antigen. Furthermore, presentation of NucNeoR was also dependent on autophagocytosis and lysosomal processing, indicating that both antigens were presented via the same pathway. Inhibition of CRM1-mediated nuclear export did not impede antigen presentation, indicating that NucNeoR gained access to this autophagy-dependent MHC class II presentation pathway by a CRM1-independent route. Thus, this endogenous presentation pathway broadens the spectrum of intracellular antigens surveyed by CD4(+) T cells by efficiently sampling cytoplasmic as well as nuclear antigens.
19545931 | The karyopherin CRM1 is required for dendritic cell maturation. Dendritic cells (DC) are the most potent antigen-presenting cells (APC) of the immune system and are specialized to activate T as well as B cell-dependent immune responses. Mature DC are characterized by expression of CD83, a surface molecule that has been postulated to be required for efficient DC activity. Here we show that Leptomycin B (LMB), a highly specific inhibitor of the nuclear export receptor CRM1, abrogates the ability of DC to stimulate T cells in an allogeneic mixed lymphocyte reaction. Interestingly, this effect correlates with down-regulation of CD83, CD80 and CD86 surface expression during DC maturation, whereas other investigated DC surface molecules, such as MHC class I and II molecules are not significantly affected. Analysis of RNA distribution reveals that particularly the stimulated expression of CD83 depended on a functional CRM1 export receptor. Taken together, the presented data show a critical involvement of the CRM1 transport receptor in DC maturation, most likely by enabling efficient nucleo-cytoplasmic translocation of specific mRNAs. Thus, interference with this pathway may provide new strategies to modulate DC function and, subsequently, DC-mediated immune responses.
20191895 | [Prognostic significance of leukemia-associated phenotype in correlation with other biologic markers in acute myeloid leukemia patients]. UNLABELLED: Leukemic cells have unique aberrant phenotypes, which permit identification of this cells at diagnose and in evolution of the disease. Signaling molecules with other cells and bone marrow stroma are part of the leukemic cells phenotype. Genetic and molecular abnormalities have the main prognostic significance and confer the leukemic cell status. The main aim of the current study is to identify correlation between recognized prognostic factors in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients and other phenotypic markers. MATERIAL AND METHOD: Imunophenotypic analysis (BDFACS CantoII, FACSDiva Software) was performed on peripheral blood/bone marrow aspirate samples of 56 patients diagnosed with AML (9 M0, 3 M1, 10 M2, 4 M3, 28 M4/M5, 1 M6, 1 M7) between 2007-2009 in Hematology Department of \Sf. Spiridon\ Hospital Iasi. We used an extended panel of monoclonal antibodies and we determined the level of expression of cytokines receptors (IL3Ra, IL7R) and chemokines (CXCR4, CKR5). RESULTS: In our study, IL7R expression on AML blasts was significant correlate with low WBC count at diagnosis (p = 0.04) and with multilinear displasia (p = 0.01), high CXCR4 expression was correlate (p = 0.05) with lack of response at first induction therapy and CD123 (IL3Ra) expression was correlate with M4 FAB phenotype. Survival was negative influenced by presence of IL3R on AML blasts, but flt3 mutations, CXCR4, IL7R expression on leukemic cells, other phenotypic aberrancies did not influenced treatment response and survival in our patients population. CONCLUSION: Complete investigation of leukemic cells phenotype extended with cytokines/chemokines receptors at diagnostic is useful for correct characterization of the disease, for discover new prognostic categories and for better identification of minimal residual disease.
22965172 | Nucleocytoplasmic shuttling and CRM1-dependent MHC class I peptide presentation of human cytomegalovirus pp65. The phosphoprotein 65 (pp65) of human cytomegalovirus is a prominent target of the antiviral CD8 T lymphocyte response. This study focused on investigating the properties of pp65 that render it a privileged antigen. It was found that pp65 was metabolically stable. The tegument protein was introduced into MHC class I presentation following its delivery via non-replicating dense bodies. No ubiquitination was found on particle-associated pp65. Proof was obtained that pp65 was a nucleocytoplasmic shuttle protein, using heterokaryon analyses. Based on this finding, inhibition experiments showed that presentation of particle-derived pp65 by HLA-A2 was sensitive to the impairment of the CRM1-mediated nuclear export pathway. The data support the idea that particle-derived pp65 can serve as a nuclear reservoir for proteasomal processing and MHC class I presentation, following its CRM1-dependent nuclear export. The presentation of pp65-derived peptides was also impaired by CRM1-inhibition following de novo synthesis of the tegument protein. However, pp65 protein levels were also reduced when blocking CRM1-mediated export after transient expression. This indicated that pp65 expression rather than direct interference with its own nuclear export was responsible for its reduced presentation in this case. The functionality of CRM1-mediated nuclear export is thus important for the presentation of pp65-derived peptides in the context of MHC class I on organ cells, both after exogenous uptake and after de novo synthesis of the tegument protein, but different mechanisms may account for either case.
23022009 | Impact of parturition on chemokine homing factor expression in the vaginal distention model of stress urinary incontinence. PURPOSE: Human childbirth simulated by vaginal distention is known to increase the expression of chemokines and receptors involved in stem cell homing and tissue repair. We hypothesized that pregnancy and parturition in rats contributes to the expression of chemokines and receptors after vaginal distention. MATERIALS AND METHODS: We used 72 age matched female Lewis rats, including virgin rats with and without vaginal distention, and delivered rats with and without vaginal distention. Each rat was sacrificed immediately, or 3 or 7 days after vaginal distention and/or parturition, and the urethra was harvested. Relative expression of chemokines and receptors was determined by real-time polymerase chain reaction. Mixed models were used with the Bonferroni correction for multiple comparisons. RESULTS: Vaginal distention up-regulated urethral expression of CCL7 immediately after injury in virgin and postpartum rats. Hypoxia inducible factor-1alpha and vascular endothelial growth factor were up-regulated only in virgin rats immediately after vaginal distention. CD191 expression was immediately up-regulated in postpartum rats without vaginal distention compared to virgin rats without vaginal distention. CD195 was up-regulated in virgin rats 3 days after vaginal distention compared to virgin rats without vaginal distention. CD193 and CXCR4 showed delayed up-regulation in virgin rats 7 days after vaginal distention. CXCL12 was up-regulated in virgin rats 3 days after vaginal distention compared to immediately after vaginal distention. Interleukin-8 and CD192 showed no differential expression. CONCLUSIONS: Vaginal distention results in up-regulation of the chemokines and receptors expressed during tissue injury, which may facilitate the spontaneous functional recovery previously noted. Pregnancy and delivery up-regulated CD191 and attenuated the expression of hypoxia inducible factor-1alpha and vascular endothelial growth factor in the setting of vaginal distention, likely by decreasing hypoxia.
25948812 | Identification of a nuclear export sequence in the MHC CIITA. Initiation of an immune response through expression of MHC class II and related genes is under the control of the CIITA. Normally found in both the cytoplasm and nucleus, CIITA is tightly controlled by a variety of posttranslational modifications as well as interactions with other nuclear and cytoplasmic factors, whereas disruption of this dual subcellular localization impairs CIITA functioning and expression of target genes. Although CIITA has well-defined domains necessary for its nuclear import, the region responsible for the translocation of CIITA from the nucleus has not been characterized. In this study, we identify a leucine-rich motif at residues 717-724 that bears strong homology to known nuclear export sequence (NES) domains. Mutation of this region renders CIITA insensitive to treatment with leptomycin B, an inhibitor of nuclear export, whereas fusion of this domain to a heterologous GFP is sufficient to induce its export to the cytoplasm or cause its retention in the nucleus following leptomycin B treatment. Point mutations of specific leucine residues within the NES disrupt the normal subcellular distribution of the full-length CIITA, impair its ability to interact with the nuclear export factor CRM1, and enhance CIITA-induced gene expression from an MHC class II gene promoter. IFN-gamma stimulation of class II genes is further enhanced by inhibiting the nuclear export of endogenous CIITA. Collectively, these data demonstrate the first identification of a specific NES within CIITA and place it among the other protein domains that contribute to the posttranslational regulation of CIITA activity.
27780205 | STAT2 Is a Pervasive Cytokine Regulator due to Its Inhibition of STAT1 in Multiple Signaling Pathways. STAT2 is the quintessential transcription factor for type 1 interferons (IFNs), where it functions as a heterodimer with STAT1. However, the human and murine STAT2-deficient phenotypes suggest important additional and currently unidentified type 1 IFN-independent activities. Here, we show that STAT2 constitutively bound to STAT1, but not STAT3, via a conserved interface. While this interaction was irrelevant for type 1 interferon signaling and STAT1 activation, it precluded the nuclear translocation specifically of STAT1 in response to IFN-gamma, interleukin-6 (IL-6), and IL-27. This is explained by the dimerization between activated STAT1 and unphosphorylated STAT2, whereby the semiphosphorylated dimers adopted a conformation incapable of importin-alpha binding. This, in turn, substantially attenuated cardinal IFN-gamma responses, including MHC expression, senescence, and antiparasitic immunity, and shifted the transcriptional output of IL-27 from STAT1 to STAT3. Our results uncover STAT2 as a pervasive cytokine regulator due to its inhibition of STAT1 in multiple signaling pathways and provide an understanding of the type 1 interferon-independent activities of this protein.
31557508 | Chemokine CCR5 and cocaine interactions in the brain: Cocaine enhances mesolimbic CCR5 mRNA levels and produces place preference and locomotor activation that are reduced by a CCR5 antagonist. C-C chemokine receptor type 5, also known as CCR5 or CD195, is best known as a viral co-receptor that facilitates entry of HIV into cells. Evidence that CCR5 knockout mice display fewer dopamine neurons, lower striatal dopamine levels, and reduced locomotor activation compared to wild types also suggest a link between CCR5 receptors and cocaine dependence. Here, we tested the hypothesis using male Sprague-Dawley rats that cocaine-induced locomotor activation and conditioned place preference (CPP) are inhibited by a FDA-approved CCR5 antagonist (maraviroc), and that CCR5 gene expression in mesolimbic substrates is enhanced by repeated cocaine exposure. Pretreatment with maraviroc (1, 2.5, 5 mg/kg, IP) reduced hyperlocomotion induced by acute cocaine (10 mg/kg) without affecting spontaneous locomotor activity. For CPP experiments, rats conditioned with cocaine (10 mg/kg x 4 days, IP) were injected with maraviroc (1, 2.5, 5 mg/kg, IP) before each injection of cocaine. Maraviroc dose-dependently inhibited development of cocaine CPP, with a dose of 5 mg/kg producing a significant reduction. In rats treated repeatedly with cocaine (10 mg/kg x 4 days, IP), CCR5 gene expression was upregulated in the nucleus accumbens and ventral tegmental area but mRNA levels of CCR5 ligands (i.e., CCL3, CCL4 and CCL5) were not affected. Our results suggest that mesolimbic CCR5 receptors are dysregulated by cocaine exposure and, similar to CXCR4 and CCR2 receptors, influence behavioral effects related to the abuse liability of cocaine.
31698677 | Description and Characterization of a Novel Human Mast Cell Line for Scientific Study. BACKGROUND: Laboratory of allergic diseases 2 (LAD2) human mast cells were developed over 15 years ago and have been distributed worldwide for studying mast cell proliferation, receptor expression, mediator release/inhibition, and signaling. LAD2 cells were derived from CD34+ cells following marrow aspiration of a patient with aggressive mastocytosis with no identified mutations in KIT. Another aspiration gave rise to a second cell line which has recently been re-established (LADR). We queried whether LADR had unique properties for the preclinical study of human mast cell biology. METHODS: LADR and LAD2 cells were cultured under identical conditions. Experiments examined proliferation, beta-hexosaminidase (beta-hex) release, surface receptor and granular protease expression, infectivity with HIV, and gene expression. RESULTS: LADR cells were larger and more granulated as seen with Wright-Giemsa staining and flow cytometry, with cell numbers doubling in 4 weeks, in contrast to LAD2 cells, which doubled every 2 weeks. Both LADR and LAD2 cells released granular contents following aggregation of FcepsilonRI. LADR cells showed log-fold increases in FcepsilonRI/CD117 and expressed CD13, CD33, CD34, CD63, CD117, CD123, CD133, CD184, CD193, and CD195, while LAD2 cells expressed CD33, CD34, CD63, CD117, CD133, CD193 but not CD13, CD123, CD184, or CD195. LADR tryptase expression was one-log-fold increased. LADR cell and LAD2 cell chymase expression were similar. Both cell lines could be infected with T-tropic, M-tropic, and dual tropic HIV. Following monomeric human IgE stimulation, LADR cells showed greater surface receptor and mRNA expression for CD184 and CD195. Expression arrays revealed differences in gene upregulation, especially for the suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS) family of genes with their role in JAK2/STAT3 signaling and cellular myelocytomatosis oncogene (c-MYC) in cell growth and regulation. CONCLUSIONS: LADR cells are thus unique in that they exhibit a slower proliferation rate, are more advanced in development, have increased FcepsilonRI/CD117 and tryptase expression, have a different profile of gene expression, and show earlier infectivity with HIV-BAL, LAV, and TYBE when compared to LAD2 cells. This new cell line is thus a valuable addition to the few FcepsilonRI+ human mast cell lines previously described and available for scientific inquiry.
33575887 | [Histomorphological patterns of regional lymph nodes in COVID-19 lungs]. BACKGROUND: A dysregulated immune response is considered one of the major factors leading to severe COVID-19. Previously described mechanisms include the development of a cytokine storm, missing immunoglobulin class switch, antibody-mediated enhancement, and aberrant antigen presentation. OBJECTIVES: To understand the heterogeneity of immune response in COVID-19, a thorough investigation of histomorphological patterns in regional lymph nodes was performed. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Lymph nodes from the cervical, mediastinal, and hilar regions were extracted from autopsies of patients with lethal COVID-19 (n = 20). Histomorphological characteristics, SARS-CoV-2 qRT-PCR, and gene expression profiling on common genes involved in immunologic response were analyzed. RESULTS: Lymph nodes displayed moderate to severe capillary stasis and edema, an increased presence of extrafollicular plasmablasts, mild to moderate plasmacytosis, a dominant population of CD8+ T-cells, and CD11c/CD68+ histiocytosis with hemophagocytic activity. Out of 20 cases, 18 presented with hypoplastic or missing germinal centers with a decrease of follicular dendritic cells and follicular T-helper cells. A positive viral load was detected by qRT-PCR in 14 of 20 cases, yet immunohistochemistry for SARS-CoV-2 N-antigen revealed positivity in sinus histiocytes of only one case. Gene expression analysis revealed an increased expression of STAT1, CD163, granzyme B, CD8A, MZB1, and PAK1, as well as CXCL9. CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, our findings imply a dysregulated immune response in lethal COVID-19. The absence/hypoplasia of germinal centers and increased presence of plasmablasts implies a transient B-cell response, implying an impaired development of long-term immunity against SARS-CoV-2 in such occasions.
33950285 | Histomorphological patterns of regional lymph nodes in COVID-19 lungs. BACKGROUND: A dysregulated immune response is considered one of the major factors leading to severe COVID-19. Previously described mechanisms include the development of a cytokine storm, missing immunoglobulin class switch, antibody-mediated enhancement, and aberrant antigen presentation. OBJECTIVES: To understand the heterogeneity of immune response in COVID-19, a thorough investigation of histomorphological patterns in regional lymph nodes was performed. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Lymph nodes from the cervical, mediastinal, and hilar regions were extracted from autopsies of patients with lethal COVID-19 (n = 20). Histomorphological characteristics, SARS-CoV-2 qRT-PCR, and gene expression profiling on common genes involved in immunologic response were analyzed. RESULTS: Lymph nodes displayed moderate to severe capillary stasis and edema, an increased presence of extrafollicular plasmablasts, mild to moderate plasmacytosis, a dominant population of CD8+ T-cells, and CD11c/CD68+ histiocytosis with hemophagocytic activity. Out of 20 cases, 18 presented with hypoplastic or missing germinal centers with a decrease of follicular dendritic cells and follicular T-helper cells. A positive viral load was detected by qRT-PCR in 14 of 20 cases, yet immunohistochemistry for SARS-CoV-2 N-antigen revealed positivity in sinus histiocytes of only one case. Gene expression analysis revealed an increased expression of STAT1, CD163, granzyme B, CD8A, MZB1, and PAK1, as well as CXCL9. CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, our findings imply a dysregulated immune response in lethal COVID-19. The absence/hypoplasia of germinal centers and increased presence of plasmablasts implies a transient B-cell response, implying an impaired development of long-term immunity against SARS-CoV-2 in such occasions.
34887065 | Influence of weather factors on the incidence of COVID-19 in Spain. INTRODUCTION: Several studies have analyzed the influence of meteorological and geographical factors on the incidence of COVID-19. Seasonality could be important in the transmission of SARS-CoV-2. This study aims to evaluate the geographical pattern of COVID-19 in Spain and its relationship with different meteorological variables. METHODS: A provincial ecological study analyzing the influence of meteorological and geographical factors on the cumulative incidence of COVID-19 in the 52 (24 coastal and 28 inland) Spanish provinces during the first three waves was carried out. The cumulative incidence was calculated with data from the National Statistical Institute (INE) and the National Epidemiological Surveillance Network (RENAVE), while the meteorological variables were obtained from the Spanish Meteorological Agency (AEMET). RESULTS: The total cumulative incidence, in all three waves, was lower in the coastal provinces than in the inland ones (566+-181 vs. 782+-154; p=2.5x10-5). The cumulative incidence correlated negatively with mean air temperature (r=-0.49; p=2.2x10-4) and rainfall (r=-0.33; p=0.01), and positively with altitude (r=0.56; p=1. 4x10-5). The Spanish provinces with an average temperature <10 C had almost twice the cumulative incidence than the provinces with temperatures >16 C. The mean air temperature and rainfall were associated with the cumulative incidence of COVID-19, regardless of other factors (Beta Coefficient of -0.62; p=3.7x10-7 and -0.47; p=4.2x10-5 respectively). CONCLUSIONS: Meteorological and geographical factors could influence the evolution of the pandemic in Spain. Knowledge regarding the seasonality of the virus would help to predict new waves of COVID-19 infections.
35296346 | Autoimmunity is a hallmark of post-COVID syndrome. Autoimmunity has emerged as a characteristic of the post-COVID syndrome (PCS), which may be related to sex. In order to further investigate the relationship between SARS-CoV-2 and autoimmunity in PCS, a clinical and serological assessment on 100 patients was done. Serum antibody profiles against self-antigens and infectious agents were evaluated by an antigen array chip for 116 IgG and 104 IgM antibodies. Thirty pre-pandemic healthy individuals were included as a control group. The median age of patients was 49 years (IQR: 37.8 to 55.3). There were 47 males. The median post-COVID time was 219 (IQR: 143 to 258) days. Latent autoimmunity and polyautoimmunity were found in 83% and 62% of patients, respectively. Three patients developed an overt autoimmune disease. IgG antibodies against IL-2, CD8B, and thyroglobulin were found in more than 10% of the patients. Other IgG autoantibodies, such as anti-interferons, were positive in 5-10% of patients. Anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgG antibodies were found in > 85% of patients and were positively correlated with autoantibodies, age, and body mass index (BMI). Few autoantibodies were influenced by age and BMI. There was no effect of gender on the over- or under-expression of autoantibodies. IgG anti-IFN-lambda antibodies were associated with the persistence of respiratory symptoms. In summary, autoimmunity is characteristic of PCS, and latent autoimmunity correlates with humoral response to SARS-CoV-2.
35595466 | Obstetric measures to decrease the spread of SARS-CoV-2 infection during labor in a conventional labor room. 
35893012 | Global m6A RNA Methylation in SARS-CoV-2 Positive Nasopharyngeal Samples in a Mexican Population: A First Approximation Study. The Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome-Coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) is the causal agent of COVID-19 (Coronavirus Disease-19). Both mutation and/or recombination events in the SARS-CoV-2 genome have resulted in variants that differ in transmissibility and severity. Furthermore, RNA methylation of the N6 position of adenosine (m6A) is known to be altered in cells infected with SARS-CoV-2. However, it is not known whether this epitranscriptomic modification differs across individuals dependent on the presence of infection with distinct SARS-CoV-2 variants, the viral load, or the vaccination status. To address this issue, we selected RNAs (n = 60) from SARS-CoV-2 sequenced nasopharyngeal samples (n = 404) of 30- to 60-year-old outpatients or hospitalized individuals from the city of Mazatlan (Mexico) between February 2021 and March 2022. Control samples were non-infected individuals (n = 10). SARS-CoV-2 was determined with real-time PCR, viral variants were determined with sequencing, and global m6A levels were determined by using a competitive immunoassay method. We identified variants of concern (VOC; alpha, gamma, delta, omicron), the variant of interest (VOI; epsilon), and the lineage B.1.1.519. Global m6A methylation differed significantly across viral variants (p = 3.2 x 10-7). In particular, we found that m6A levels were significantly lower in the VOC delta- and omicron-positive individuals compared to non-infected individuals (p = 2.541236 x 10-2 and 1.134411 x 10-4, respectively). However, we uncovered no significant correlation between global m6A levels and viral nucleocapsid (N) gene expression or age. Furthermore, individuals with complete vaccination schemes showed significantly lower m6A levels than unvaccinated individuals (p = 2.6 x 10-4), and differences in methylation levels across variants in unvaccinated individuals were significant (p = 3.068 x 10-3). These preliminary results suggest that SARS-CoV-2 variants show differences in global m6A levels.
36060101 | Influence of weather factors on the incidence of COVID-19 in Spain. Introduction: Several studies have analyzed the influence of meteorological and geographical factors on the incidence of COVID-19. Seasonality could be important in the transmission of SARS-CoV-2. This study aims to evaluate the geographical pattern of COVID-19 in Spain and its relationship with different meteorological variables. Methods: A provincial ecological study analyzing the influence of meteorological and geographical factors on the cumulative incidence of COVID-19 in the 52 (24 coastal and 28 inland) Spanish provinces during the first three waves was carried out. The cumulative incidence was calculated with data from the National Statistical Institute (INE) and the National Epidemiological Surveillance Network (RENAVE), while the meteorological variables were obtained from the Spanish Meteorological Agency (AEMET). Results: The total cumulative incidence, in all three waves, was lower in the coastal provinces than in the inland ones (566 +- 181 vs. 782 +- 154; P = 2.5 x 10-5). The cumulative incidence correlated negatively with mean air temperature (r = -0.49; P = 2.2 x 10-4) and rainfall (r = -0.33; P = .01), and positively with altitude (r = 0.56; P = 1.4 x 10-5). The Spanish provinces with an average temperature <10  C had almost twice the cumulative incidence than the provinces with temperatures >16  C. The mean air temperature and rainfall were associated with the cumulative incidence of COVID-19, regardless of other factors (Beta Coefficient of -0.62; P = 3.7 x 10-7 and -0.47; P = 4.2 x 10-5 respectively). Conclusions: Meteorological and geographical factors could influence the evolution of the pandemic in Spain. Knowledge regarding the seasonality of the virus would help to predict new waves of COVID-19 infections.
36189286 | Bioinformatics and systems biology approach to identify the pathogenetic link of Long COVID and Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome. Background: The COVID-19 pandemic, caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), is a global crisis. Although many people recover from COVID-19 infection, they are likely to develop persistent symptoms similar to those of myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS) after discharge. Those constellations of symptoms persist for months after infection, called Long COVID, which may lead to considerable financial burden and healthcare challenges. However, the mechanisms underlying Long COVID and ME/CFS remain unclear. Methods: We collected the genes associated with Long COVID and ME/CFS in databases by restricted screening conditions and clinical sample datasets with limited filters. The common genes for Long COVID and ME/CFS were finally obtained by taking the intersection. We performed several advanced bioinformatics analyses based on common genes, including gene ontology and pathway enrichment analyses, protein-protein interaction (PPI) analysis, transcription factor (TF)-gene interaction network analysis, transcription factor-miRNA co-regulatory network analysis, and candidate drug analysis prediction. Results: We found nine common genes between Long COVID and ME/CFS and gained a piece of detailed information on their biological functions and signaling pathways through enrichment analysis. Five hub proteins (IL-6, IL-1B, CD8A, TP53, and CXCL8) were collected by the PPI network. The TF-gene and TF-miRNA coregulatory networks were demonstrated by NetworkAnalyst. In the end, 10 potential chemical compounds were predicted. Conclusion: This study revealed common gene interaction networks of Long COVID and ME/CFS and predicted potential therapeutic drugs for clinical practice. Our findings help to identify the potential biological mechanism between Long COVID and ME/CFS. However, more laboratory and multicenter evidence is required to explore greater mechanistic insight before clinical application in the future.
36228659 | Human leukocyte antigen alleles associate with COVID-19 vaccine immunogenicity and risk of breakthrough infection. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) vaccine immunogenicity varies between individuals, and immune responses correlate with vaccine efficacy. Using data from 1,076 participants enrolled in ChAdOx1 nCov-19 vaccine efficacy trials in the United Kingdom, we found that inter-individual variation in normalized antibody responses against SARS-CoV-2 spike and its receptor-binding domain (RBD) at 28 days after first vaccination shows genome-wide significant association with major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II alleles. The most statistically significant association with higher levels of anti-RBD antibody was HLA-DQB1*06 (P = 3.2 x 10-9), which we replicated in 1,677 additional vaccinees. Individuals carrying HLA-DQB1*06 alleles were less likely to experience PCR-confirmed breakthrough infection during the ancestral SARS-CoV-2 virus and subsequent Alpha variant waves compared to non-carriers (hazard ratio = 0.63, 0.42-0.93, P = 0.02). We identified a distinct spike-derived peptide that is predicted to bind differentially to HLA-DQB1*06 compared to other similar alleles, and we found evidence of increased spike-specific memory B cell responses in HLA-DQB1*06 carriers at 84 days after first vaccination. Our results demonstrate association of HLA type with Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) vaccine antibody response and risk of breakthrough infection, with implications for future vaccine design and implementation.
37145391 | Immune Response Against SARS-CoV-2 Infection and Vaccination in a CD8alpha-Deficient Patient. 
37221323 | Using system biology and bioinformatics to identify the influences of COVID-19 co-infection with influenza virus on COPD. Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has speedily increased mortality globally. Although they are risk factors for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), less is known about the common molecular mechanisms behind COVID-19, influenza virus A (IAV), and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). This research used bioinformatics and systems biology to find possible medications for treating COVID-19, IAV, and COPD via identifying differentially expressed genes (DEGs) from gene expression datasets (GSE171110, GSE76925, GSE106986, and GSE185576). A total of 78 DEGs were subjected to functional enrichment, pathway analysis, protein-protein interaction (PPI) network construct, hub gene extraction, and other potentially relevant disorders. Then, DEGs were discovered in networks including transcription factor (TF)-gene connections, protein-drug interactions, and DEG-microRNA (miRNA) coregulatory networks by using NetworkAnalyst. The top 12 hub genes were MPO, MMP9, CD8A, HP, ELANE, CD5, CR2, PLA2G7, PIK3R1, SLAMF1, PEX3, and TNFRSF17. We found that 44 TFs-genes, as well as 118 miRNAs, are directly linked to hub genes. Additionally, we searched the Drug Signatures Database (DSigDB) and identified 10 drugs that could potentially treat COVID-19, IAV, and COPD. Therefore, we evaluated the top 12 hub genes that could be promising DEGs for targeted therapy for SARS-CoV-2 and identified several prospective medications that may benefit COPD patients with COVID-19 and IAV co-infection.
37533854 | Transcriptomic profiles of multiple organ dysfunction syndrome phenotypes in pediatric critical influenza. Background: Influenza virus is responsible for a large global burden of disease, especially in children. Multiple Organ Dysfunction Syndrome (MODS) is a life-threatening and fatal complication of severe influenza infection. Methods: We measured RNA expression of 469 biologically plausible candidate genes in children admitted to North American pediatric intensive care units with severe influenza virus infection with and without MODS. Whole blood samples from 191 influenza-infected children (median age 6.4 years, IQR: 2.2, 11) were collected a median of 27 hours following admission; for 45 children a second blood sample was collected approximately seven days later. Extracted RNA was hybridized to NanoString mRNA probes, counts normalized, and analyzed using linear models controlling for age and bacterial co-infections (FDR q<0.05). Results: Comparing pediatric samples collected near admission, children with Prolonged MODS for >=7 days (n=38; 9 deaths) had significant upregulation of nine mRNA transcripts associated with neutrophil degranulation (RETN, TCN1, OLFM4, MMP8, LCN2, BPI, LTF, S100A12, GUSB) compared to those who recovered more rapidly from MODS (n=27). These neutrophil transcripts present in early samples predicted Prolonged MODS or death when compared to patients who recovered, however in paired longitudinal samples, they were not differentially expressed over time. Instead, five genes involved in protein metabolism and/or adaptive immunity signaling pathways (RPL3, MRPL3, HLA-DMB, EEF1G, CD8A) were associated with MODS recovery within a week. Conclusion: Thus, early increased expression of neutrophil degranulation genes indicated worse clinical outcomes in children with influenza infection, consistent with reports in adult cohorts with influenza, sepsis, and acute respiratory distress syndrome.
37690681 | Multiple mechanisms of self-association of chemokine receptors CXCR4 and CCR5 demonstrated by deep mutagenesis. Chemokine receptors are members of the rhodopsin-like class A GPCRs whose signaling through G proteins drives the directional movement of cells in response to a chemokine gradient. Chemokine receptors CXCR4 and CCR5 have been extensively studied due to their roles in leukocyte development and inflammation and their status as coreceptors for HIV-1 infection, among other roles. Both receptors form dimers or oligomers of unclear function. While CXCR4 has been crystallized in a dimeric arrangement, available atomic resolution structures of CCR5 are monomeric. To investigate their dimerization interfaces, we used a bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC)-based screen and deep mutational scanning to find mutations that change how the receptors self-associate, either via specific oligomer assembly or alternative mechanisms of clustering in close proximity. Many disruptive mutations promoted self-associations nonspecifically, suggesting they aggregated in the membrane. A mutationally intolerant region was found on CXCR4 that matched the crystallographic dimer interface, supporting this dimeric arrangement in living cells. A mutationally intolerant region was also observed on the surface of CCR5 by transmembrane helices 3 and 4. Mutations predicted from the scan to reduce BiFC were validated and were localized in the transmembrane domains as well as the C-terminal cytoplasmic tails where they reduced lipid microdomain localization. A mutation in the dimer interface of CXCR4 had increased binding to the ligand CXCL12 and yet diminished calcium signaling. There was no change in syncytia formation with cells expressing HIV-1 Env. The data highlight that multiple mechanisms are involved in self-association of chemokine receptor chains.
37718001 | Structural dynamics of chemokine receptors. Membrane proteins such as G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are involved in awide range of physiological and pathological cellular processes. Binding of extracellular signals to GPCRs, including hormones, neurotransmitters, peptides and proteins, can activate intracellular signaling cascades via G protein interaction. Chemokine receptors are key GPCRs implicated in cancers, immune responses, cell migration and inflammation. Specifically, the CCR5 and CXCR4 chemokine receptors serve as important therapeutic targets against Human Immunodeficiency virus (HIV) entry into human cells. Maraviroc and Vicriviroc, two clinically used HIV entry inhibitors, are antagonists of the CCR5 receptor. These drugs block HIV entry, but ultimately resistance develops, due to emergence of viruses that can utilize the CXCR4 co-receptor. Unfortunately, development of chemokine receptor antagonists as selective drugs of HIV infection has been greatly hindered as their target orthosteric site is conserved among different receptor subtypes. Accordingly, it is important to understand the structural dynamics of these receptors to develop more effective therapeutics. In this chapter, we describe the latest advances in studies of these two key chemokine receptors with respect to their structures, dynamics and function.
37833254 | Structural basis of dimerization of chemokine receptors CCR5 and CXCR4. G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are prominent drug targets responsible for extracellular-to-intracellular signal transduction. GPCRs can form functional dimers that have been poorly characterized so far. Here, we show the dimerization mechanism of the chemokine receptors CCR5 and CXCR4 by means of an advanced free-energy technique named coarse-grained metadynamics. Our results reproduce binding events between the GPCRs occurring in the minute timescale, revealing a symmetric and an asymmetric dimeric structure for each of the three investigated systems, CCR5/CCR5, CXCR4/CXCR4, and CCR5/CXCR4. The transmembrane helices TM4-TM5 and TM6-TM7 are the preferred binding interfaces for CCR5 and CXCR4, respectively. The identified dimeric states differ in the access to the binding sites of the ligand and G protein, indicating that dimerization may represent a fine allosteric mechanism to regulate receptor activity. Our study offers structural basis for the design of ligands able to modulate the formation of CCR5 and CXCR4 dimers and in turn their activity, with therapeutic potential against HIV, cancer, and immune-inflammatory diseases.
37997026 | The chemokines CCL5 and CXCL12 exhibit high-affinity binding to N-terminal peptides of the non-cognate receptors CXCR4 and CCR5, respectively. CC and CXC chemokines are distinct chemokine subfamilies. CC chemokines usually do not bind CXC-chemokine receptors and vice versa. CCR5 and CXCR4 receptors are activated by CCL5 and CXCL12 chemokines, respectively, and are also used as HIV-1 coreceptors. CCL5 contains one conserved binding site for a sulfated tyrosine residue, whereas CXCL12 is unique in having two additional sites for sulfated/non-sulfated tyrosine residues. In this study N-terminal (Nt) CXCR4 peptides were found to bind CCL5 with somewhat higher affinities in comparison to those of short Nt-CCR5(8-20) peptides with the same number of sulfated tyrosine residues. Similarly, a long Nt-CCR5(1-27)(s Y3,s Y10,s Y14) peptide cross reacts with CXCL12 and with lower KD in comparison to its binding to CCL5. Intermolecular Nuclear Overhauser effect (NOE) measurements were used to decipher the mechanism of the chemokine/Nt-receptor peptide binding. The Nt-CXCR4 peptides interact with the conserved CCL5 tyrosine sulfate binding site by an allovalency mechanism like that observed for CCL5 binding of Nt-CCR5 peptides. Nt-CCR5 peptides bind CXCL12 in multiple modes analogous to their binding to HIV-1 gp120 and interact with all three tyrosine/sulfated tyrosine binding pockets of CXCL12. We suggest that the chemokine-receptors Nt-segments bind promiscuously to cognate and non-cognate chemokines and in a mechanism that is dependent on the number of binding pockets for tyrosine residues found on the chemokine. In conclusion, common features shared among the chemokine-receptors' Nt-segments such as multiple tyrosine residues that are potentially sulfated, and a large number of negatively charged residues, are the reason of the cross binding observed in this study.
38001943 | Characterization of a Human Neuronal Culture System for the Study of Cofilin-Actin Rod Pathology. Cofilactin rod pathology, which can initiate synapse loss, has been extensively studied in rodent neurons, hippocampal slices, and in vivo mouse models of human neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). In these systems, rod formation induced by disease-associated factors, such as soluble oligomers of Amyloid-beta (Abeta) in AD, utilizes a pathway requiring cellular prion protein (PrPC), NADPH oxidase (NOX), and cytokine/chemokine receptors (CCR5 and/or CXCR4). However, rod pathways have not been systematically assessed in a human neuronal model. Here, we characterize glutamatergic neurons differentiated from human-induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) for the formation of rods in response to activators of the PrPC-dependent pathway. Optimization of substratum, cell density, and use of glial-conditioned medium yielded a robust system for studying the development of Abeta-induced rods in the absence of glia, suggesting a cell-autonomous pathway. Rod induction in younger neurons requires ectopic expression of PrPC, but this dependency disappears by Day 55. The quantification of proteins within the rod-inducing pathway suggests that increased PrPC and CXCR4 expression may be factors in the doubling of the rod response to Abeta between Days 35 and 55. FDA-approved antagonists to CXCR4 and CCR5 inhibit the rod response. Rods were predominantly observed in dendrites, although severe cytoskeletal disruptions prevented the assignment of over 40% of the rods to either an axon or dendrite. In the absence of glia, a condition in which rods are more readily observed, neurons mature and fire action potentials but do not form functional synapses. However, PSD95-containing dendritic spines associate with axonal regions of pre-synaptic vesicles containing the glutamate transporter, VGLUT1. Thus, our results identified stem cell-derived neurons as a robust model for studying cofilactin rod formation in a human cellular environment and for developing effective therapeutic strategies for the treatment of dementias arising from multiple proteinopathies with different rod initiators.
38255199 | Chemokine Receptor Antagonists Prevent and Reverse Cofilin-Actin Rod Pathology and Protect Synapses in Cultured Rodent and Human iPSC-Derived Neurons. Synapse loss is the principal cause of cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and related disorders (ADRD). Synapse development depends on the intricate dynamics of the neuronal cytoskeleton. Cofilin, the major protein regulating actin dynamics, can be sequestered into cofilactin rods, intra-neurite bundles of cofilin-saturated actin filaments that can disrupt vesicular trafficking and cause synaptic loss. Rods are a brain pathology in human AD and mouse models of AD and ADRD. Eliminating rods is the focus of this paper. One pathway for rod formation is triggered in ~20% of rodent hippocampal neurons by disease-related factors (e.g., soluble oligomers of Amyloid-beta (Abeta)) and requires cellular prion protein (PrPC), active NADPH oxidase (NOX), and cytokine/chemokine receptors (CCRs). FDA-approved antagonists of CXCR4 and CCR5 inhibit Abeta-induced rods in both rodent and human neurons with effective concentrations for 50% rod reduction (EC50) of 1-10 nM. Remarkably, two D-amino acid receptor-active peptides (RAP-103 and RAP-310) inhibit Abeta-induced rods with an EC50 of ~1 pM in mouse neurons and ~0.1 pM in human neurons. These peptides are analogs of D-Ala-Peptide T-Amide (DAPTA) and share a pentapeptide sequence (TTNYT) antagonistic to several CCR-dependent responses. RAP-103 does not inhibit neuritogenesis or outgrowth even at 1 microM, >106-fold above its EC50. N-terminal methylation, or D-Thr to D-Ser substitution, decreases the rod-inhibiting potency of RAP-103 by 103-fold, suggesting high target specificity. Neither RAP peptide inhibits neuronal rod formation induced by excitotoxic glutamate, but both inhibit rods induced in human neurons by several PrPC/NOX pathway activators (Abeta, HIV-gp120 protein, and IL-6). Significantly, RAP-103 completely protects against Abeta-induced loss of mature and developing synapses and, at 0.1 nM, reverses rods in both rodent and human neurons (T1/2 ~ 3 h) even in the continuous presence of Abeta. Thus, this orally available, brain-permeable peptide should be highly effective in reducing rod pathology in multifactorial neurological diseases with mixed proteinopathies acting through PrPC/NOX.
38256260 | CXCR4 Is a Potential Target for Anti-HIV Gene Therapy. The human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) epidemic is a global issue. The estimated number of people with HIV is 39,000,000 to date. Antiviral therapy is the primary approach to treat the infection. However, it does not allow for a complete elimination of the pathogen. The advances in modern gene therapy methods open up new possibilities of effective therapy. One of these areas of possibility is the development of technologies to prevent virus penetration into the cell. Currently, a number of technologies aimed at either the prevention of virus binding to the CCR5 coreceptor or its knockout are undergoing various stages of clinical trials. Since HIV can also utilize the CXCR4 coreceptor, technologies to modify this receptor are also required. Standard knockout of CXCR4 is impossible due to its physiological significance. This review presents an analysis of interactions between individual amino acids in CXCR4 and physiological ligands and HIV gp120. It also discusses potential targets for gene therapy approaches aimed at modifying the coreceptor.
38311121 | HIV coinfection exacerbates HBV-induced liver fibrogenesis through a HIF-1alpha- and TGF-beta1-dependent pathway. BACKGROUND & AIMS: Persons with chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection coinfected with HIV experience accelerated progression of liver fibrosis compared to those with HBV mono-infection. We hypothesize that HIV and its proteins promote HBV-induced liver fibrosis in HIV/HBV coinfected cell culture models through HIF-1alpha and TGF-beta1 signaling. METHODS: The HBV positive supernatant, purified HBV viral particles, HIV positive supernatant, or HIV viral particles were directly incubated (or infected) with cell lines or primary cells of hepatocytes, hepatic stellate cells, and macrophages in mono or 3D spheroid coculture models. Cells were incubated with recombinant cytokines and HIV proteins including gp120. HBV subgenomic constructs were transfected into NTCP-HepG2 cells. We also evaluated the effects of inhibitors of HIF-1alpha and HIV gp120 in a HBV carrier mouse model that was generated by hydrodynamic injection of pAAV/HBV1.2 plasmid through the tail vein of wild-type C57BL/6 mice. RESULTS: We found that HIV and HIV gp120, through engagement with CCR5 and CXCR4 coreceptors, activate AKT and ERK signaling and subsequently upregulate hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha) to increase HBV-induced transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGF-beta1) and profibrogenic gene expression in hepatocytes and hepatic stellate cells (HSC). HIV gp120 exacerbates HBV X protein-mediated HIF1alpha expression and liver fibrogenesis, which can be alleviated by inhibiting HIF-1alpha. Conversely, TGF-beta1 upregulates HIF-1alpha expression and HBV-induced liver fibrogenesis through the SMAD signaling pathway. HIF-1alpha siRNA transfection or the HIF-1alpha inhibitor (Acriflavine) blocked HIV, HBV, and the TGF-beta1-induced fibrogenic response. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that HIV coinfection exacerbates HBV-induced liver fibrogenesis through enhancement of the positive feedback between HIF-1alpha and TGF-beta1 through CCR5/CXCR4. HIF-1alpha represents a novel target for antifibrotic therapeutic development in HBV/HIV coinfection. IMPACT AND IMPLICATIONS: HIV coinfection accelerates the progression of liver fibrosis compared to HBV mono-infection, even among patients with successful suppression of viral load, and there is no sufficient treatment for this disease process. In this study, we found that HIV viral particles and specifically HIV gp120 promote HBV-induced hepatic fibrogenesis via enhancement of the positive feedback between HIF-1alpha and TGF-beta1, which can be ameliorated by inhibition of HIF-1alpha. These findings suggest that targeting the HIF-1alpha pathway can reduce the liver fibrogenesis of patients with HIV and HBV coinfection.
38321132 | Exploring the association between rosacea and acne by integrated bioinformatics analysis. Clinically, rosacea occurs frequently in acne patients, which hints the existence of shared signals. However, the connection between the pathophysiology of rosacea and acne are not yet fully understood. This study aims to unveil molecular mechanism in the pathogenesis of rosacea and acne. We identified differentially expressed genes (DEGs) by limma and weighted gene co-expression network analysis and screened hub genes by constructing a protein-protein interaction network. The hub genes were verified in different datasets. Then, we performed a correlation analysis between the hub genes and the pathways. Finally, we predicted and verified transcription factors of hub genes, performed the immune cell infiltration analysis using CIBERSORT, and calculated the correlation between hub genes and immune cells. A total of 169 common DEGs were identified, which were mainly enriched in immune-related pathways. Finally, hub genes were identified as IL1B, PTPRC, CXCL8, MMP9, CCL4, CXCL10, CD163, CCR5, CXCR4, and TLR8. 9 transcription factors that regulated the expression of hub genes were identified. The infiltration of gammadeltaT cells was significantly increased in rosacea and acne lesions and positively linked with almost all hub genes. These identified hub genes and immune cells may play a crucial role in the development of rosacea and acne.
38328062 | High-resolution Inference of Multiplexed Anti-HIV Gene Editing using Single-Cell Targeted DNA Sequencing. Gene therapy-based HIV cure strategies typically aim to excise the HIV provirus directly, or target host dependency factors (HDFs) that support viral persistence. Cure approaches will likely require simultaneous co-targeting of multiple sites within the HIV genome to prevent evolution of resistance, and/or co-targeting of multiple HDFs to fully render host cells refractory to HIV infection. Bulk cell-based methods do not enable inference of co-editing within individual viral or target cell genomes, and do not discriminate between monoallelic and biallelic gene disruption. Here, we describe a targeted single-cell DNA sequencing (scDNA-seq) platform characterizing the near full-length HIV genome and 50 established HDF genes, designed to evaluate anti-HIV gene therapy strategies. We implemented the platform to investigate the capacity of multiplexed CRISPR-Cas9 ribonucleoprotein complexes (Cas9-RNPs) to simultaneously 1) inactivate the HIV provirus, and 2) knockout the CCR5 and CXCR4 HDF (entry co-receptor) genes in microglia and primary monocyte-derived macrophages (MDMs). Our scDNA-seq pipeline revealed that antiviral gene editing is rarely observed at multiple loci (or both alleles of a locus) within an individual cell, and editing probabilities across sites are linked. Our results demonstrate that single-cell sequencing is critical to evaluate the true efficacy and therapeutic potential of HIV gene therapy. eTOC Synopsis: Bouzidi et al created a novel targeted single-cell DNA sequencing pipeline to characterize anti-HIV gene editing at multiple viral and host genome sites within individual cells, providing the HIV cure field with a powerful tool to gauge the preclinical and clinical efficacy of HIV gene therapy approaches.
38500878 | Immunoregulatory molecule expression on extracellular microvesicles in people living with HIV. Introduction: People living with HIV (PLWH) now benefit from combined antiviral treatments that durably control viral replication. These antiretroviral treatments decrease mortality and improve quality of life in PLWH, but do not completely control the excessive non-specific activation of the immune system in PLWH. This chronic immune activation is a key element of HIV immunopathology that contributes to the pathophysiology of inflammatory comorbid conditions, such as cardiovascular disorders, cancer and autoimmune diseases. Circulating non-exosomal extracellular vesicles, also known as microparticles (MPs) are detected in these diseases and have been linked to immune activation. The objective of this study was to characterize the MPs present in PLWH and to assess their association with chronic immune activation. Methods: We performed flow cytometry for the complete phenotypic characterization of MPs from fresh plasma from PLWH and from people without HIV as the control group. The absolute number, size and cellular origin of MPs were evaluated. The immunoregulatory profile was determined by cell origin, for MPs derived from platelets (PMPs), monocytes (MMPs) and T lymphocytes (LMPs). Results: PLWH had significantly more circulating MPs than controls, for MPs of all sizes originating from T lymphocytes, red blood cells, neutrophils, dendritic cells, B lymphocytes and endothelial cells. PMPs and MMPs were not more numerous in PLWH, but the immunoregulatory phenotypes of these MPs differed between PLWH and controls. These differences in immunoregulatory molecule expression profile were also observed for LMPs. PDL1, ICOSL, CCR5, TGFbeta1, MHC classes I and II, TRAIL, CXCR4, OX40, DC-SIGN, CTLA4 and PDL2 were more strongly expressed on the surface of MPs from PLWH than on those from controls. Conclusion: MPs are an important element in intercellular communication, making it possible to transfer phenotypes and functions to immune cells. The significantly higher numbers of MPs expressing diverse immunomodulatory molecules in PLWH may make a major contribution to the maintenance and/or the development of immune-cell activation in these individuals.
38579679 | Genetic haute couture to block HIV-1 at front doors. The chemokine receptors CCR5 and CXCR4 are \front doors\ for HIV-1 infection in host cells, and their targeting represents a potential solution for a cure. Dudek et al.1 now propose a new gene editing strategy to simultaneously block CCR5- and CXCR4-mediated HIV-1 entry in autologous hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs).
38579682 | A simultaneous knockout knockin genome editing strategy in HSPCs potently inhibits CCR5- and CXCR4-tropic HIV-1 infection. Allogeneic hematopoietic stem and progenitor cell transplant (HSCT) of CCR5 null (CCR5Delta32) cells can be curative for HIV-1-infected patients. However, because allogeneic HSCT poses significant risk, CCR5Delta32 matched bone marrow donors are rare, and CCR5Delta32 transplant does not confer resistance to the CXCR4-tropic virus, it is not a viable option for most patients. We describe a targeted Cas9/AAV6-based genome editing strategy for autologous HSCT resulting in both CCR5- and CXCR4-tropic HIV-1 resistance. Edited human hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) maintain multi-lineage repopulation capacity in vivo, and edited primary human T cells potently inhibit infection by both CCR5-tropic and CXCR4-tropic HIV-1. Modification rates facilitated complete loss of CCR5-tropic replication and up to a 2,000-fold decrease in CXCR4-tropic replication without CXCR4 locus disruption. This multi-factor editing strategy in HSPCs could provide a broad approach for autologous HSCT as a functional cure for both CCR5-tropic and CXCR4-tropic HIV-1 infections.
38635321 | The gut microbe pair of Oribacterium sp. GMB0313 and Ruminococcus sp. GMB0270 confers complete protection against SARS-CoV-2 infection by activating CD8+ T cell-mediated immunity. Despite the potential protective role of the gut microbiome against COVID-19, specific microbes conferring resistance to COVID-19 have not yet been identified. In this work, we aimed to identify and validate gut microbes at the species level that provide protection against SARS-CoV-2 infection. To identify gut microbes conferring protection against COVID-19, we conducted a fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) from an individual with no history of COVID-19 infection or immunization into a lethal COVID-19 hamster model. FMT from this COVID-19-resistant donor resulted in significant phenotypic changes related to COVID-19 sensitivity in the hamsters. Metagenomic analysis revealed distinct differences in the gut microbiome composition among the hamster groups, leading to the identification of two previously unknown bacterial species: Oribacterium sp. GMB0313 and Ruminococcus sp. GMB0270, both associated with COVID-19 resistance. Subsequently, we conducted a proof-of-concept confirmation animal experiment adhering to Koch's postulates. Oral administration of this gut microbe pair, Oribacterium sp. GMB0313 and Ruminococcus sp. GMB0270, to the hamsters provided complete protection against SARS-CoV-2 infection through the activation of CD8+ T cell mediated immunity. The prophylactic efficacy of the gut microbe pair against SARS-CoV-2 infection was comparable to, or even superior to, current mRNA vaccines. This strong prophylactic efficacy suggests that the gut microbe pair could be developed as a host-directed universal vaccine for all betacoronaviruses, including potential future emerging viruses.
38642547 | Obesity Differs from Diabetes Mellitus in Antibody and T Cell Responses Post COVID-19 Recovery. Obesity and type 2 diabetes (DM) are risk factors for severe COVID-19 outcomes, which disproportionately affect South Asian populations. This study aims to investigate the humoral and cellular immune responses to SARS-CoV-2 in adult COVID-19 survivors with obesity and DM in Bangladesh. In this cross-sectional study, SARS-CoV-2-specific antibody and T cell responses were investigated in 63 healthy and 75 PCR-confirmed COVID-19 recovered individuals in Bangladesh, during the pre-vaccination first wave of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020. In COVID-19 survivors, SARS-CoV-2 infection induced robust antibody and T cell responses, which correlated with disease severity. After adjusting for age, sex, DM status, disease severity, and time since onset of symptoms, obesity was associated with decreased neutralising antibody titers, and increased SARS-CoV-2 spike-specific IFN-gamma response along with increased proliferation and IL-2 production by CD8+ T cells. In contrast, DM was not associated with SARS-CoV-2-specific antibody and T cell responses after adjustment for obesity and other confounders. Obesity is associated with lower neutralising antibody levels and higher T cell responses to SARS-CoV-2 post COVID-19 recovery, while antibody or T cell responses remain unaltered in DM.
38643867 | SARS-CoV-2 mRNA vaccination and short-term changes in viral load and CD4/CD8 T cell counts in people living with HIV. OBJECTIVES: To investigate if SARS-CoV-2 mRNA vaccination has an impact on HIV-related viro-immunological parameters. METHODS: PWH of the VAXICONA-ORCHESTRA cohort who received >=1 dose of SARS-CoV-2 mRNA vaccine and for whom paired measures of immuno-virological markers [Viral Load (VL), CD4, CD8 count 1 month before and after a vaccine dose (VD)] were available, were included. Paired t-test and generalized estimating equation linear regression analyses were used to study changes over +- 1 month around the VD. Subgroup analyses were performed. RESULTS: 510 PWH enrolled: median age 55 y (IQR 46-60), CD4 and CD8 count 489(287-719) and 790 (59-1104) cells/mm3. 81% received 3 VDs. After a median of 28 days (3-53) from VD, CD4 count increased by +15 cells/mm3 (SD +-129.7; p=0.001), CD8 by +12 (+-250.5; p=0.199), VL decreased by -0.11 log10 (+-0.88; p=0.001). Similar results were observed after restricting the analysis to viro-suppressed PWH, with CD4 <=200/mm3, more than 6 months of ART before VD and after excluding previous COVID-19. CONCLUSIONS: A small significant increase in CD4 count and a negligible drop in HIV-RNA were observed. Our findings are consistent with the hypothesis that SARS-CoV-2 mRNA vaccine can prime CD4 T spike specific cells even in the more immuno-compromised PWH.
11570581 | Cytotoxic T cells infiltrating a glioma express an aberrant phenotype that is associated with decreased function and apoptosis. In this study, we report on novel alterations found in rat intracranial (i.c.) tumor-infiltrating T lymphocytes (TIL) that are indicative of T cell defects and death. FACS analysis showed that the cytotoxic T cells (CTL) infiltrating rat T9.F gliomas were CD3epsilon+, alphabetaTCR+, CD8alpha+, but CD8beta-. These lymphocytes also stained positive for the B cell-specific marker, CD45RA, as well as Annexin-V, signifying apoptotic changes. Functional and biochemical analyses were performed to assess whether the aberrant phenotype was linked to other defects. When CD8alpha+ TIL were purified and stimulated in vitro, their proliferative capacity was markedly diminished in comparison with CD3+CD8alpha+CD8beta+ T cells isolated from the spleens of naive, non tumor-bearing rats. Furthermore, the mean fluorescence intensity of surface CD3epsilon was dramatically reduced in the CD3+CD8alpha+CD8beta- TIL population as compared with CD3-CD8alpha+CD8beta+ TIL from the same tumor-bearing animal. Biochemical studies revealed that the expression of TCRzeta and LAT were reduced in lysates generated from CD8alpha-purified TIL with respect to CD8alpha-purified T cells from naive spleen. We believe that these degenerative changes are reflective of chronic T cell receptor ligation, because in vitro culture of rat splenocytes or purified T cells with ConA or anti-CD3 mAb induced the same alterations. In vitro, the downregulation of CD8beta could be inhibited by the caspase inhibitor, z-VAD. These results suggest that the aberrant CTL phenotype found in the TIL of glioma-bearing rats may be novel signals for their impending death and degenerating anti-tumor immune function.
19155471 | Targeting antigen to MHC class II molecules promotes efficient cross-presentation and enhances immunotherapy. An efficient pathway of cross-presentation common to a range of dendritic cell (DC) populations was identified by targeting Ag to MHC class II molecules. This finding was achieved by conjugating Ag to M1, which is a modified version of the superantigen streptococcal mitogenic exotoxin Z-2 that binds to MHC class II molecules but cannot directly stimulate T cells. M1 conjugates were efficiently presented to CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells by bone marrow-derived DC and Langerhans cells in vitro. Whereas nonconjugated Ag was preferentially cross-presented by splenic CD8alpha(+) DC in vivo, M1-conjugated Ag was cross-presented by all dendritic subtypes assessed. Potent effector T cell responses with antitumor activity were elicited when M1 conjugates were injected together with an adjuvant. This method of Ag delivery has significant potential in therapeutic applications.
22016621 | KCNQ1 haplotypes associate with type 2 diabetes in Malaysian Chinese Subjects. The aim of this study was to investigate the association of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and haplotypes of potassium voltage-gated channel, KQT-like subfamily, member 1 (KCNQ1) with type 2 diabetes (T2D) in Malaysian Chinese subjects. The KCNQ1 SNPs rs2237892, rs2283228 and rs2237895 were genotyped in 300 T2D patients and 230 control subjects without diabetes and metabolic syndrome. Two logistic regression models of analysis were applied, the first adjusted for age and gender while the second adjusted for age, gender and body mass index. The additive genetic analysis showed that adjusting for body mass index (BMI) even strengthened association of rs2237892, rs2283228 and rs2237895 with T2D (OR = 2.0, P = 5.1 x 10(-5); OR = 1.9, P = 5.2 x 10(-5); OR = 1.9, P = 7.8 x 10(-5), respectively). The haplotype TCA containing the allele of rs2237892 (T), rs2283228 (C) and rs2237895 (A) was highly protective against T2D (Second model; OR = 0.17, P = 3.7 x 10(-11)). The KCNQ1 rs2237892 (TT), and the protective haplotype (TCA) were associated with higher beta-cell function (HOMA-B) in normal subjects (P = 0.0002; 0.014, respectively). This study found that KCNQ1 SNPs was associated with T2D susceptibility in Malaysian Chinese subjects. In addition, certain KCNQ1 haplotypes were strongly associated with T2D.
22419062 | An effective intra-operative neurophysiological monitoring scheme for aneurysm clipping and spinal fusion surgeries. Somatosensory-evoked potentials (SSEPs) have been widely used for intra-operative neurophysiological monitoring (IONM). Currently at least 200-300 trials are required to generate a readable SSEP signal. This study introduces a novel approach that yields accurate detection results of the SSEP signal yet with a significantly reduced number of trials, resulting in an effectual monitoring process. The analysis was performed on data recorded in seven patients undergoing surgery, where the posterior tibial nerve was stimulated and the SSEP response was recorded from scalp electroencephalography using two bipolar electrodes, C(3)-C(4) and C(Z)-F(Z). The proposed approach employs an innovative, simple yet effective algorithm based on a patient-specific Gaussian template to detect the SSEP using only 30 trials. The time latencies of the P37 and N45 peaks are detected along with the peak-to-peak amplitudes. The time latencies are detected with a mean accuracy greater than 95%. Also, the P37 and N45 peak latencies and the peak-to-peak amplitude were found to be consistent throughout the surgical procedure within the 10% and 50% acceptable clinical limits, respectively. The results obtained support the assertion that the algorithm is capable of detecting SSEPs with high accuracy and consistency throughout the entire surgical procedure using only 30 trials.
22682551 | Common variation in the NOS1AP gene is associated with drug-induced QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmia. OBJECTIVES: This study sought to determine whether variations in NOS1AP affect drug-induced long QT syndrome (LQTS). BACKGROUND: Use of antiarrhythmic drugs is limited by the high incidence of serious adverse events including QT prolongation and torsades de pointes. NOS1AP gene variants play a role in modulating QT intervals in healthy subjects and severity of presentation in LQTS. METHODS: This study carried out an association study using 167 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) spanning the NOS1AP gene in 58 Caucasian patients experiencing drug-induced LQTS (dLQTS) and 87 Caucasian controls from the DARE (Drug-Induced Arrhythmia Risk Evaluation) study. RESULTS: The rs10800397 SNP was significantly associated with dLQTS (odds ratio [OR]: 3.3, 99.95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.0 to 10.8, p = 3.7 x 10(-4)). The associations were more pronounced in the subgroup of amiodarone users, in which 3 SNPs, including rs10800397, were significantly associated (most significant SNP: rs10919035: OR: 5.5, 99.95% CI: 1.1 to 27.9, p = 3.0 x 10(-4)). We genotyped rs10919035 in an independent replication cohort of 28 amiodarone dLQTS cases versus 173 control subjects (meta-analysis of both studies: OR: 2.81, 99.95% CI: 1.62 to 4.89, p = 2.4 x 10(-4)). Analysis of corrected QT interval among 74 control subjects from our dataset showed a similar pattern of significance over the gene region as the case-control analysis. This pattern was confirmed in 1,480 control subjects from the BRIGHT (British Genetics of Hypertension Study) cohort (top SNP from DARE: rs12734991 in meta-analysis: increase in corrected QT interval per C allele: 9.1 +- 3.2 ms, p = 1.7 x 10(-4)). CONCLUSIONS: These results provide the first demonstration that common variations in the NOS1AP gene are associated with a significant increase in the risk of dLQTS. This study suggests that common variations in the NOS1AP gene may have relevance for future pharmacogenomic applications in clinical practice permitting safer prescription of drugs for vulnerable patients.
23902946 | Genetic variants in GREM2 are associated with bone mineral density in a southern Chinese population. CONTEXT: Gremlin 2 (GREM2) is a regulator of osteoblast differentiation and osteogenesis. A recent genome-wide association study identified GREM2 as a novel susceptibility gene for trabecular volumetric bone mineral density (BMD). OBJECTIVE: We investigated whether GREM2 gene variants were associated with areal BMD in southern Chinese people. RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: We genotyped 108 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in 417 cases (defined as BMD Z-score <=-1.28) and 359 controls (defined as BMD Z-score >=+1). Multivariable logistic regression using an additive model was used to evaluate the association. The most associated SNPs of BMD at the spine, femoral neck, and total hip was then replicated in an additional 454 cases and 401 controls. RESULTS: Twelve, 13, and 14 SNPs showed nominal association with BMD at the spine, femoral neck, and total hip, respectively. The minor alleles of rs9728351 (odds ratio [OR] = 2.56; 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.33-4.92), rs11588607 (OR = 1.65; 95% CI = 1.14-2.4), and rs4454537 (OR = 1.87; 95% CI = 1.22-2.86) were associated with the low BMD at the spine, femoral neck, and total hip, respectively. Among these SNPs most associated with BMD, rs4454537 was successfully replicated in an independent cohort (OR = 1.59; 95% CI = 1.05-2.4). Meta-analysis showed that the minor allele of rs4454537 was associated with low total hip BMD with an OR of 1.72 (95% CI = 1.28-2.31) (P = 3.2 x 10(-4); P(corrected) = .043). CONCLUSIONS: The minor allele of rs4454537 is significantly associated with low BMD at the total hip of southern Chinese people. Our study further suggests GREM2 as a novel susceptibility gene for osteoporosis.
24777856 | DNGR-1 is dispensable for CD8+ T-cell priming during respiratory syncytial virus infection. During respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infection CD8(+) T cells both assist in viral clearance and contribute to immunopathology. CD8(+) T cells recognize viral peptides presented by dendritic cells (DCs), which can directly present viral antigens when infected or, alternatively, \cross-present\ antigens after endocytosis of dead or dying infected cells. Mouse CD8alpha(+) and CD103(+) DCs excel at cross-presentation, in part because they express the receptor DNGR-1 that detects dead cells by binding to exposed F-actin and routes internalized cell debris into the cross-presentation pathway. As RSV causes death in infected epithelial cells, we tested whether cross-presentation via DNGR-1 is necessary for CD8(+) T-cell responses to the virus. DNGR-1-deficient or wild-type mice were intranasally inoculated with RSV and the magnitude of RSV-specific CD8(+) T-cell induction was measured. We found that during live RSV infection, cross-presentation via DNGR-1 did not have a major role in the generation of RSV-specific CD8(+) T-cell responses. However, after intranasal immunization with dead cells infected with RSV, a dependence on DNGR-1 for RSV-specific CD8(+) T-cell responses was observed, confirming the ascribed role of the receptor. Thus, direct presentation by DCs may be the major pathway initiating CD8(+) T-cell responses to RSV, while DNGR-1-dependent cross-presentation has no detectable role. 
24915083 | Complex assembly, crystallization and preliminary X-ray crystallographic analysis of the bovine CD8alphaalpha-BoLA-2*02201 complex. In order to clarify the structural characteristics of the bovine MHC class I molecule (BoLA-I) complexed with CD8alphaalpha (CD8alphaalpha-BoLA-I), bovine CD8alphaalpha, BoLA-I (BoLA-2*02201) and beta2m were expressed and purified, and were then assembled with a peptide derived from Foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV-VP1YY9) and crystallized. The crystal diffracted to 1.7 A resolution and belonged to space group P21, with unit-cell parameters a=53.9, b=103.8, c=61.8 A, alpha=gamma=90, beta=96 . The asymmetric unit contained one complex, with a Matthews coefficient of 2.41 A3 Da(-1) and a solvent content of 48.9%. The rotation-function Z-score and translation-function Z-score for molecular replacement were 3.4 and 8.9, respectively. In addition, SDS-PAGE analysis of CD8alphaalpha-BoLA-I crystals showed three bands corresponding to the molecular weights of BoLA-I heavy chain, beta2m and CD8alpha. The structure of the CD8alphaalpha-BoLA-I complex should be helpful in obtaining insight into the interaction between bovine CD8alphaalpha and MHC class I molecules. Structure determination of BoLA-2*02201-FMDV-VP1YY9 will be useful in the design of vaccines for foot-and-mouth disease.
25078492 | Examining the causal association of fasting glucose with blood pressure in healthy children and adolescents: a Mendelian randomization study employing common genetic variants of fasting glucose. The aim of the study was to determine whether genetically raised fasting glucose (FG) levels are associated with blood pressure (BP) in healthy children and adolescents. We used 11 common genetic variants of FG discovered in genome-wide association studies (GWAS), including the rs560887 single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) located in the G6PC2 locus found to be robustly associated with FG in children and adolescents, as an instrument to associate FG with resting BP in 1506 children and adolescents from the European Youth Heart Study (EYHS). Rs560887 was associated with increased FG levels corresponding to an increase of 0.08 mmol l(-1) (P=2.4 x 10(-8)). FG was associated with BP, independent of other important determinants of BP in conventional multivariable analysis (systolic BP z-score: 0.32 s.d. per increase in mmol l(-1) (95% confidence interval (CI) 0.20-0.44, P=1.9 x 10(-7)), diastolic BP z-score: 0.13 s.d. per increase in mmol l(-1) (95% CI 0.04-0.21, P=3.2 x 10(-3)). This association was not supported by the Mendelian randomization approach, neither from instrumenting FG from all 11 variants nor from the rs560887, where non-significant associations of glucose with BP were observed. The results of this study could not support a causal association between FG and BP in healthy children and adolescents; however, it is possible that rs560887 has pleiotropic effects on unknown factors with a BP lowering effect or that these results were due to a lack of statistical power. 
25832805 | Crystal Engineering with the New Linker Tolanedisulfonic Acid (H2 TDS): Helical Chains in Zn(TDS)(DMA)3 , Linear Chains in Zn(TDS)(NMP)3 , and Complex Anions in [HDMA]2 [Zn(TDS)2 (DMA)3 ](DMA)2. Reaction of 4,4'-tolanedisulfonic acid, H2 TDS, with zinc hydroxide in dimethylacetamide, DMA, under solvothermal conditions led to the coordination polymer Zn(TDS)(DMA)3 (I). In the crystal structure [trigonal, P32 21, Z=3, a=1175.0(1) pm, c=1949.5(1) pm, R1 ; wR2 (Io > 2sigma(Io ))=0.0393; 0.0921] the disulfonate anions linked the Zn(2+) ions into helical chains according to   (1) [Zn(DMA)3/1 (TDS)2/2 ] (I) causing the chirality of the compound. By using higher concentrations of H2 TDS in the starting mixture the compound [HDMA]2 [Zn(TDS)2 (DMA)3 ](DMA)2 (II) was formed. The structure [monoclinic, Cc, Z=4, a=1201.5(1) pm, b=1996.0(1) pm, c=2749.2(2) pm, beta=101.897(2) , R1 ; wR2 (Io > 2sigma(Io ))=0.0699; 0.2017] displayed the complex anion [Zn(TDS)2 (DMA)3 ](2-) which was a perfect cut-off of the helical chain in I. Charge compensation was achieved by protonated DMA molecules. If N-methylpyrrolidone, NMP, was chosen as a solvent, the sulfonate Zn(TDS)(NMP)3 (III) [monoclinic, I2/a, Z=4, a=1575.7(1) pm, b=1077.3(1) pm, c=1870.0(1) pm, beta=101.189(9) , R1 ; wR2 (Io > 2sigma(Io ))=0.0563; 0.1320] was obtained. Similarly to the findings for I, the formation of chains according to   (1) [Zn(NMP)3/1 (TDS)2/2 ] was observed. However, due to the more bulky NMP molecules these chains were no longer helical but straight instead.
25873087 | Analyses of 7,635 Patients with Colorectal Cancer Using Independent Training and Validation Cohorts Show That rs9929218 in CDH1 Is a Prognostic Marker of Survival. PURPOSE: Genome-wide association studies have identified numerous loci associated with colorectal cancer risk. Several of these have also been associated with patient survival, although none have been validated. Here, we used large independent training and validation cohorts to identify robust prognostic biomarkers for colorectal cancer. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: In our training phase, we analyzed 20 colorectal cancer-risk SNPs from 14 genome-wide associated loci, for their effects on survival in 2,083 patients with advanced colorectal cancer. A Cox survival model was used, stratified for treatment, adjusted for known prognostic factors, and corrected for multiple testing. Three SNPs were subsequently analyzed in an independent validation cohort of 5,552 colorectal cancer patients. A validated SNP was analyzed by disease stage and response to treatment. RESULTS: Three variants associated with survival in the training phase; however, only rs9929218 at 16q22 (intron 2 of CDH1, encoding E-cadherin) was significant in the validation phase. Patients homozygous for the minor allele (AA genotype) had worse survival (training phase HR, 1.43; 95% confidence intervals; CI, 1.20-1.71, P = 5.8 x 10(-5); validation phase HR, 1.18; 95% CI, 1.01-1.37, P = 3.2 x 10(-2); combined HR, 1.28; 95% CI, 1.14-1.43, P = 2.2 x 10(-5)). This effect was independent of known prognostic factors, and was significant amongst patients with stage IV disease (P = 2.7 x 10(-5)). rs9929218 was also associated with poor response to chemotherapy (P = 3.9 x 10(-4)). CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrate the potential of common inherited genetic variants to inform patient outcome and show that rs9929218 identifies approximately 8% of colorectal cancer patients with poor prognosis. rs9929218 may affect CDH1 expression and E-cadherin plays a role in epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition providing a mechanism underlying its prognostic potential. Clin Cancer Res; 21(15); 3453-61.  2015 AACR.
25878334 | POLE Proofreading Mutations Elicit an Antitumor Immune Response in Endometrial Cancer. PURPOSE: Recent studies have shown that 7% to 12% of endometrial cancers are ultramutated due to somatic mutation in the proofreading exonuclease domain of the DNA replicase POLE. Interestingly, these tumors have an excellent prognosis. In view of the emerging data linking mutation burden, immune response, and clinical outcome in cancer, we investigated whether POLE-mutant endometrial cancers showed evidence of increased immunogenicity. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: We examined immune infiltration and activation according to tumor POLE proofreading mutation in a molecularly defined endometrial cancer cohort including 47 POLE-mutant tumors. We sought to confirm our results by analysis of RNAseq data from the TCGA endometrial cancer series and used the same series to examine whether differences in immune infiltration could be explained by an enrichment of immunogenic neoepitopes in POLE-mutant endometrial cancers. RESULTS: Compared with other endometrial cancers, POLE mutants displayed an enhanced cytotoxic T-cell response, evidenced by increased numbers of CD8(+) tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes and CD8A expression, enrichment for a tumor-infiltrating T-cell gene signature, and strong upregulation of the T-cell cytotoxic differentiation and effector markers T-bet, Eomes, IFNG, PRF, and granzyme B. This was accompanied by upregulation of T-cell exhaustion markers, consistent with chronic antigen exposure. In silico analysis confirmed that POLE-mutant cancers are predicted to display more antigenic neoepitopes than other endometrial cancers, providing a potential explanation for our findings. CONCLUSIONS: Ultramutated POLE proofreading-mutant endometrial cancers are characterized by a robust intratumoral T-cell response, which correlates with, and may be caused by an enrichment of antigenic neopeptides. Our study provides a plausible mechanism for the excellent prognosis of these cancers.
27349314 | Site-directed mutagenesis, in vivo electroporation and mass spectrometry in search for determinants of the subcellular targeting of Rab7b paralogue in the model eukaryote Paramecium octaurelia. Protein products of the paralogous genes resulting from the whole genome duplication may acquire new function. The role of post-translational modifications (PTM) in proper targeting of Paramecium Rab7b paralogue - distinct from that of Rab7a directly involved in phagocytosis - was studied using point mutagenesis, proteomic analysis and double immunofluorescence after in vivo electroporation of the mutagenized protein. Here we show that substitution of Thr200 by Ala200 resulted in diminished incorporation of [P32] by 37.4% and of 32 [C14-]UDP-glucose by 24%, respectively, into recombinant Rab7b_200 in comparison to the non-mutagenized control. Double confocal imaging revealed that Rab7b_200 was mistargeted upon electroporation into living cells contrary to non- mutagenized recombinant Rab7b correctly incorporated in the cytostome area. We identified the peptide ion at m/z=677.63+ characteristic for the glycan group attached to Thr200 in Rab7b using nano LC-MS/MS and comparing the peptide map of this protein with that after deglycosylation with the mixture of five enzymes of different specificity. Based on the mass of this peptide ion and quantitative radioactive assays with [P32]and  [C14-]UDP- glucose, the suggested composition of the adduct attached to Thr200 might be (Hex)1(HexNAc)1(Phos)3 or (HexNAc)1 (Deoxyhexose)1 (Phos)1 (HexA)1. These data indicate that PTM of Thr200 located in the hypervariable C-region of Rab7b in Paramecium is crucial for the proper localization/function of this protein. Moreover, these proteins differ also in other PTM: the number of phosphorylated amino acids in Rab7b is much higher than in Rab7a. 
28448241 | Prediction of Breast and Prostate Cancer Risks in Male BRCA1 and BRCA2 Mutation Carriers Using Polygenic Risk Scores. Purpose BRCA1/2 mutations increase the risk of breast and prostate cancer in men. Common genetic variants modify cancer risks for female carriers of BRCA1/2 mutations. We investigated-for the first time to our knowledge-associations of common genetic variants with breast and prostate cancer risks for male carriers of BRCA1/ 2 mutations and implications for cancer risk prediction. Materials and Methods We genotyped 1,802 male carriers of BRCA1/2 mutations from the Consortium of Investigators of Modifiers of BRCA1/2 by using the custom Illumina OncoArray. We investigated the combined effects of established breast and prostate cancer susceptibility variants on cancer risks for male carriers of BRCA1/2 mutations by constructing weighted polygenic risk scores (PRSs) using published effect estimates as weights. Results In male carriers of BRCA1/2 mutations, PRS that was based on 88 female breast cancer susceptibility variants was associated with breast cancer risk (odds ratio per standard deviation of PRS, 1.36; 95% CI, 1.19 to 1.56; P = 8.6 x 10-6). Similarly, PRS that was based on 103 prostate cancer susceptibility variants was associated with prostate cancer risk (odds ratio per SD of PRS, 1.56; 95% CI, 1.35 to 1.81; P = 3.2 x 10-9). Large differences in absolute cancer risks were observed at the extremes of the PRS distribution. For example, prostate cancer risk by age 80 years at the 5th and 95th percentiles of the PRS varies from 7% to 26% for carriers of BRCA1 mutations and from 19% to 61% for carriers of BRCA2 mutations, respectively. Conclusion PRSs may provide informative cancer risk stratification for male carriers of BRCA1/2 mutations that might enable these men and their physicians to make informed decisions on the type and timing of breast and prostate cancer risk management.
28512596 | In vitro screening for protein tyrosine phosphatase 1B and dipeptidyl peptidase IV inhibitors from selected Nigerian medicinal plants. BACKGROUND/AIM: Protein tyrosine phosphatase 1B (PTP 1B) and dipeptidyl peptidase IV (DPP IV) have been identified as one of the drug targets for the treatment of Type-2 diabetes. This study was designed to screen for PTP 1B and DPP-IV inhibitors from some Nigerian medicinal plants. MATERIALS AND METHODS: PTP 1B and DPP-IV drug discovery kits from Enzo Life Sciences were used to investigate in vitro inhibitory effect of crude methanolic extract of 10 plants; Mangifera indica, Moringa oleifera, Acacia nilotica, Arachis hypogaea, Senna nigricans, Azadirachta indica, Calotropis procera, Leptadenia hastata, Ziziphus mauritiana, and Solanum incanum. RESULTS: The results indicated PTP IB inhibition by S. nigricans (68.2 +- 2.29%), A. indica (67.4 +- 2.80%), A. hypogaea (57.2 +- 2.50%), A. nilotica (55.1 +- 2.19%), and M. oleifera (41.2 +- 1.87%) were significantly (P < 0.05) higher as compared with standard inhibitor, sumarin while that of L. hastata (18.1 +- 2.00%) was significantly lower as compared with sumarin. The PTB 1B inhibition by M. indica (31.5 +- 1.90%) was not significantly (P > 0.05) different from that of sumarin. The DPP-IV inhibition by S. incanum (68.1 +- 2.71%) was significantly higher as compared with a known inhibitor, P32/98. S. nigrican (57.0+-1.91%), Z. mauritiana (56.6+-2.01%), A. hypogaea (51.0+-1.30%), M. indica (44.6 +- 2.40%), C. procera (36.2 +- 2.00%), A. nilotica (35.4 +- 2.10%), and A. indica (33.6 +- 1.50%) show significantly (P < 0.05) lower inhibitions toward DPP-IV. CONCLUSION: The work demonstrated that these plant materials could serve as sources of lead compounds in the development of anti-diabetic agent(s) targeting PTP 1B and/or DPP-IV.
28607102 | The Dendritic Cell Receptor DNGR-1 Promotes the Development of Atherosclerosis in Mice. RATIONALE: Necrotic core formation during the development of atherosclerosis is associated with a chronic inflammatory response and promotes accelerated plaque development and instability. However, the molecular links between necrosis and the development of atherosclerosis are not completely understood. Clec9a (C-type lectin receptor) or DNGR-1 (dendritic cell NK lectin group receptor-1) is preferentially expressed by the CD8alpha+ subset of dendritic cells (CD8alpha+ DCs) and is involved in sensing necrotic cells. We hypothesized that sensing of necrotic cells by DNGR-1 plays a determinant role in the inflammatory response of atherosclerosis. OBJECTIVE: We sought to address the impact of total, bone marrow-restricted, or CD8alpha+ DC-restricted deletion of DNGR-1 on atherosclerosis development. METHODS AND RESULTS: We show that total absence of DNGR-1 in Apoe (apolipoprotein e)-deficient mice (Apoe-/-) and bone marrow-restricted deletion of DNGR-1 in Ldlr (low-density lipoprotein receptor)-deficient mice (Ldlr-/-) significantly reduce inflammatory cell content within arterial plaques and limit atherosclerosis development in a context of moderate hypercholesterolemia. This is associated with a significant increase of the expression of interleukin-10 (IL-10). The atheroprotective effect of DNGR-1 deletion is completely abrogated in the absence of bone marrow-derived IL-10. Furthermore, a specific deletion of DNGR-1 in CD8alpha+ DCs significantly increases IL-10 expression, reduces macrophage and T-cell contents within the lesions, and limits the development of atherosclerosis. CONCLUSIONS: Our results unravel a new role of DNGR-1 in regulating vascular inflammation and atherosclerosis and potentially identify a new target for disease modulation.
28829991 | Pro-inflammatory fatty acid profile and colorectal cancer risk: A Mendelian randomisation analysis. BACKGROUND: While dietary fat has been established as a risk factor for colorectal cancer (CRC), associations between fatty acids (FAs) and CRC have been inconsistent. Using Mendelian randomisation (MR), we sought to evaluate associations between polyunsaturated (PUFA), monounsaturated (MUFA) and saturated FAs (SFAs) and CRC risk. METHODS: We analysed genotype data on 9254 CRC cases and 18,386 controls of European ancestry. Externally weighted polygenic risk scores were generated and used to evaluate associations with CRC per one standard deviation increase in genetically defined plasma FA levels. RESULTS: Risk reduction was observed for oleic and palmitoleic MUFAs (OROA = 0.77, 95% CI: 0.65-0.92, P = 3.9 x 10-3; ORPOA = 0.36, 95% CI: 0.15-0.84, P = 0.018). PUFAs linoleic and arachidonic acid had negative and positive associations with CRC respectively (ORLA = 0.95, 95% CI: 0.93-0.98, P = 3.7 x 10-4; ORAA = 1.05, 95% CI: 1.02-1.07, P = 1.7 x 10-4). The SFA stearic acid was associated with increased CRC risk (ORSA = 1.17, 95% CI: 1.01-1.35, P = 0.041). CONCLUSION: Results from our analysis are broadly consistent with a pro-inflammatory FA profile having a detrimental effect in terms of CRC risk.
29188294 | Genetic Association of Lipids and Lipid Drug Targets With Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm: A Meta-analysis. Importance: Risk factors for abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) are largely unknown, which has hampered the development of nonsurgical treatments to alter the natural history of disease. Objective: To investigate the association between lipid-associated single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and AAA risk. Design, Setting, and Participants: Genetic risk scores, composed of lipid trait-associated SNPs, were constructed and tested for their association with AAA using conventional (inverse-variance weighted) mendelian randomization (MR) and data from international AAA genome-wide association studies. Sensitivity analyses to account for potential genetic pleiotropy included MR-Egger and weighted median MR, and multivariable MR method was used to test the independent association of lipids with AAA risk. The association between AAA and SNPs in loci that can act as proxies for drug targets was also assessed. Data collection took place between January 9, 2015, and January 4, 2016. Data analysis was conducted between January 4, 2015, and December 31, 2016. Exposures: Genetic elevation of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), and triglycerides (TG). Main Outcomes and Measures: The association between genetic risk scores of lipid-associated SNPs and AAA risk, as well as the association between SNPs in lipid drug targets (HMGCR, CETP, and PCSK9) and AAA risk. Results: Up to 4914 cases and 48 002 controls were included in our analysis. A 1-SD genetic elevation of LDL-C was associated with increased AAA risk (odds ratio [OR], 1.66; 95% CI, 1.41-1.96; P = 1.1 x 10-9). For HDL-C, a 1-SD increase was associated with reduced AAA risk (OR, 0.67; 95% CI, 0.55-0.82; P = 8.3 x 10-5), whereas a 1-SD increase in triglycerides was associated with increased AAA risk (OR, 1.69; 95% CI, 1.38-2.07; P = 5.2 x 10-7). In multivariable MR analysis and both MR-Egger and weighted median MR methods, the association of each lipid fraction with AAA risk remained largely unchanged. The LDL-C-reducing allele of rs12916 in HMGCR was associated with AAA risk (OR, 0.93; 95% CI, 0.89-0.98; P = .009). The HDL-C-raising allele of rs3764261 in CETP was associated with lower AAA risk (OR, 0.89; 95% CI, 0.85-0.94; P = 3.7 x 10-7). Finally, the LDL-C-lowering allele of rs11206510 in PCSK9 was weakly associated with a lower AAA risk (OR, 0.94; 95% CI, 0.88-1.00; P = .04), but a second independent LDL-C-lowering variant in PCSK9 (rs2479409) was not associated with AAA risk (OR, 0.97; 95% CI, 0.92-1.02; P = .28). Conclusions and Relevance: The MR analyses in this study lend support to the hypothesis that lipids play an important role in the etiology of AAA. Analyses of individual genetic variants used as proxies for drug targets support LDL-C lowering as a potential effective treatment strategy for preventing and managing AAA.
29436389 | Deletion of IRF8 (Interferon Regulatory Factor 8)-Dependent Dendritic Cells Abrogates Proatherogenic Adaptive Immunity. RATIONALE: Despite an established role for adaptive immune responses in atherosclerosis, the contribution of dendritic cells (DCs) and their various subsets is still poorly understood. OBJECTIVE: Here, we address the role of IRF8 (interferon regulatory factor 8)-dependent DCs (lymphoid CD8alpha+ and their developmentally related nonlymphoid CD103+ DCs) in the induction of proatherogenic immune responses during high fat feeding. METHODS AND RESULTS: Using a fate-mapping technique to track DCs originating from a DNGR1+ (dendritic cell natural killer lectin group receptor 1) precursor (Clec9a+/creRosa+/EYFP mice), we first show that YFPhiCD11chiMHCIIhi (major histocompatibility complex class II) DCs are present in the atherosclerotic aorta of low-density lipoprotein receptor-deficient (Ldlr-/-) mice and are CD11b-CD103+IRF8hi. Restricted deletion of IRF8 in DCs (Irf8flox/floxCd11cCre ) reduces the accumulation of CD11chiMHCIIhi DCs in the aorta without affecting CD11b+CD103- DCs or macrophages but completely abolishes the accumulation of aortic CD11b-CD103+ DCs. Lymphoid CD8alpha+ DCs are also deleted. This is associated with a significant reduction of aortic T-cell accumulation and a marked reduction of high-fat diet-induced systemic T-cell priming, activation, and differentiation toward T helper type 1 cells, T follicular helper cells, and regulatory T cells. As a consequence, B-cell activation and germinal center responses to high-fat diet are also markedly reduced. IRF8 deletion in DCs significantly reduces the development of atherosclerosis, predominantly in the aortic sinus, despite a modest increase in total plasma cholesterol levels. CONCLUSIONS: IRF8 expression in DCs plays a nonredundant role in the development of proatherogenic adaptive immunity.
29465311 | p32 regulates ER stress and lipid homeostasis by down-regulating GCS1 expression. Sustained endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress plays a major role in the development of many metabolic diseases, including cardiovascular disease, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, insulin resistance, obesity, and diabetes. p32 is a multicompartmental protein involved in the regulation of oxidative phosphorylation and glucose oxidation. p32 ablation is associated with resistance to age-associated and diet-induced obesity through a mechanism that remains largely unknown. Here, we show that p32 promotes lipid biosynthesis by modulating fatty acid-induced ER stress. We found that p32 interacts with endoplasmic reticulum-anchored enzyme mannosyl-oligosaccharide glucosidase I (GCS1), an ER lumen-anchored glucosidase that is essential for the processing of N-linked glycoproteins, and reduces GCS1 in a lysosome-dependent manner. We demonstrate that increased GCS1 expression alleviates fatty acid-induced ER stress and is critical for suppressing ER stress-associated lipogenic gene activation, as demonstrated by the down-regulation of Srebp1, Fasn, and Acc. Consistently, suppression of p32 leads to increased GCS1 expression and alleviates fatty acid-induced ER stress, resulting in reduced lipid accumulation. Thus, p32 and GCS1 are regulators of ER function and lipid homeostasis and are potential therapeutic targets for the treatment of obesity and diabetes.-Liu, Y., Leslie, P. L., Jin, A., Itahana, K., Graves, L. M., Zhang, Y. p32 regulates ER stress and lipid homeostasis by down-regulating GCS1 expression.
31388185 | Tumour-infiltrating CD8+ lymphocytes and colorectal cancer recurrence by tumour and nodal stage. BACKGROUND: Intratumoural T-cell infiltrate intensity cortes wrelaith clinical outcome in stage II/III colorectal cancer (CRC). We aimed to determine whether this association varies across this heterogeneous group. METHODS: We performed a pooled analysis of 1804 CRCs from the QUASAR2 and VICTOR trials. Intratumoural CD8+ and CD3+ densities were quantified by immunohistochemistry in tissue microarray (TMA) cores, and their association with clinical outcome analysed by Cox regression. We validated our results using publicly available gene expression data in a pooled analysis of 1375 CRCs from seven independent series. RESULTS: In QUASAR2, intratumoural CD8+ was a stronger predictor of CRC recurrence than CD3+ and showed similar discriminative ability to both markers in combination. Pooled multivariable analysis of both trials showed increasing CD8+ density was associated with reduced recurrence risk independent of confounders including DNA mismatch repair deficiency, POLE mutation and chromosomal instability (multivariable hazard ratio [HR] for each two-fold increase = 0.92, 95%CI = 0.87-0.97, P = 3.6 x 10-3). This association was not uniform across risk strata defined by tumour and nodal stage: absent in low-risk (pT3,N0) cases (HR = 1.03, 95%CI = 0.87-1.21, P = 0.75), modest in intermediate-risk (pT4,N0 or pT1-3,N1-2) cases (HR = 0.92, 95%CI = 0.86-1.0, P = 0.046) and strong in high-risk (pT4,N1-2) cases (HR = 0.87, 95%CI = 0.79-0.97, P = 9.4 x 10-3); PINTERACTION = 0.090. Analysis of tumour CD8A expression in the independent validation cohort revealed similar variation in prognostic value across risk strata (PINTERACTION = 0.048). CONCLUSIONS: The prognostic value of intratumoural CD8+ cell infiltration in stage II/III CRC varies across tumour and nodal risk strata.
31585951 | Identification of a tumor-specific allo-HLA-restricted gammadeltaTCR. gammadeltaT cells are key players in cancer immune surveillance because of their ability to recognize malignant transformed cells, which makes them promising therapeutic tools in the treatment of cancer. However, the biological mechanisms of how gammadeltaT-cell receptors (TCRs) interact with their ligands are poorly understood. Within this context, we describe the novel allo-HLA-restricted and CD8alpha-dependent Vgamma5Vdelta1TCR. In contrast to the previous assumption of the general allo-HLA reactivity of a minor fraction of gammadeltaTCRs, we show that classic anti-HLA-directed, gammadeltaTCR-mediated reactivity can selectively act on hematological and solid tumor cells, while not harming healthy tissues in vitro and in vivo. We identified the molecular interface with proximity to the peptide-binding groove of HLA-A*24:02 as the essential determinant for recognition and describe the critical role of CD8 as a coreceptor. We conclude that alloreactive gammadeltaT-cell repertoires provide therapeutic opportunities, either within the context of haplotransplantation or as individual gammadeltaTCRs for genetic engineering of tumor-reactive T cells.
31610723 | Impaired Autophagy in CD11b+ Dendritic Cells Expands CD4+ Regulatory T Cells and Limits Atherosclerosis in Mice. RATIONALE: Atherosclerosis is a chronic inflammatory disease. Recent studies have shown that dysfunctional autophagy in endothelial cells, smooth muscle cells, and macrophages, plays a detrimental role during atherogenesis, leading to the suggestion that autophagy-stimulating approaches may provide benefit. OBJECTIVE: Dendritic cells (DCs) are at the crossroad of innate and adaptive immune responses and profoundly modulate the development of atherosclerosis. Intriguingly, the role of autophagy in DC function during atherosclerosis and how the autophagy process would impact disease development has not been addressed. METHODS AND RESULTS: Here, we show that the autophagic flux in atherosclerosis-susceptible Ldlr-/- (low-density lipoprotein receptor-deficient) mice is substantially higher in splenic and aortic DCs compared with macrophages and is further activated under hypercholesterolemic conditions. RNA sequencing and functional studies on selective cell populations reveal that disruption of autophagy through deletion of Atg16l1 differentially affects the biology and functions of DC subsets in Ldlr-/- mice under high-fat diet. Atg16l1 deficient CD11b+ DCs develop a TGF (transforming growth factor)-beta-dependent tolerogenic phenotype and promote the expansion of regulatory T cells, whereas no such effects are seen with Atg16l1 deficient CD8alpha+ DCs. Atg16l1 deletion in DCs (all CD11c-expressing cells) expands aortic regulatory T cells in vivo, limits the accumulation of T helper cells type 1, and reduces the development of atherosclerosis in Ldlr-/- mice. In contrast, no such effects are seen when Atg16l1 is deleted selectively in conventional CD8alpha+ DCs and CD103+ DCs. Total T-cell or selective regulatory T-cell depletion abrogates the atheroprotective effect of Atg16l1 deficient DCs. CONCLUSIONS: In contrast to its proatherogenic role in macrophages, autophagy disruption in DCs induces a counter-regulatory response that maintains immune homeostasis in Ldlr-/- mice under high-fat diet and limits atherogenesis. Selective modulation of autophagy in DCs could constitute an interesting therapeutic target in atherosclerosis.
32099098 | Leveraging genome-wide data to investigate differences between opioid use vs. opioid dependence in 41,176 individuals from the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium. To provide insights into the biology of opioid dependence (OD) and opioid use (i.e., exposure, OE), we completed a genome-wide analysis comparing 4503 OD cases, 4173 opioid-exposed controls, and 32,500 opioid-unexposed controls, including participants of European and African descent (EUR and AFR, respectively). Among the variants identified, rs9291211 was associated with OE (exposed vs. unexposed controls; EUR z = -5.39, p = 7.2 x 10-8). This variant regulates the transcriptomic profiles of SLC30A9 and BEND4 in multiple brain tissues and was previously associated with depression, alcohol consumption, and neuroticism. A phenome-wide scan of rs9291211 in the UK Biobank (N > 360,000) found association of this variant with propensity to use dietary supplements (p = 1.68 x 10-8). With respect to the same OE phenotype in the gene-based analysis, we identified SDCCAG8 (EUR + AFR z = 4.69, p = 10-6), which was previously associated with educational attainment, risk-taking behaviors, and schizophrenia. In addition, rs201123820 showed a genome-wide significant difference between OD cases and unexposed controls (AFR z = 5.55, p = 2.9 x 10-8) and a significant association with musculoskeletal disorders in the UK Biobank (p = 4.88 x 10-7). A polygenic risk score (PRS) based on a GWAS of risk-tolerance (n = 466,571) was positively associated with OD (OD vs. unexposed controls, p = 8.1 x 10-5; OD cases vs. exposed controls, p = 0.054) and OE (exposed vs. unexposed controls, p = 3.6 x 10-5). A PRS based on a GWAS of neuroticism (n = 390,278) was positively associated with OD (OD vs. unexposed controls, p = 3.2 x 10-5; OD vs. exposed controls, p = 0.002) but not with OE (p = 0.67). Our analyses highlight the difference between dependence and exposure and the importance of considering the definition of controls in studies of addiction.
33239672 | The genetic architecture of sporadic and multiple consecutive miscarriage. Miscarriage is a common, complex trait affecting ~15% of clinically confirmed pregnancies. Here we present the results of large-scale genetic association analyses with 69,054 cases from five different ancestries for sporadic miscarriage, 750 cases of European ancestry for multiple (>=3) consecutive miscarriage, and up to 359,469 female controls. We identify one genome-wide significant association (rs146350366, minor allele frequency (MAF) 1.2%, P = 3.2 x 10-8, odds ratio (OR) = 1.4) for sporadic miscarriage in our European ancestry meta-analysis and three genome-wide significant associations for multiple consecutive miscarriage (rs7859844, MAF = 6.4%, P = 1.3 x 10-8, OR = 1.7; rs143445068, MAF = 0.8%, P = 5.2 x 10-9, OR = 3.4; rs183453668, MAF = 0.5%, P = 2.8 x 10-8, OR = 3.8). We further investigate the genetic architecture of miscarriage with biobank-scale Mendelian randomization, heritability, and genetic correlation analyses. Our results show that miscarriage etiopathogenesis is partly driven by genetic variation potentially related to placental biology, and illustrate the utility of large-scale biobank data for understanding this pregnancy complication.
33397934 | The order and logic of CD4 versus CD8 lineage choice and differentiation in mouse thymus. CD4 and CD8 mark helper and cytotoxic T cell lineages, respectively, and serve as coreceptors for MHC-restricted TCR recognition. How coreceptor expression is matched with TCR specificity is central to understanding CD4/CD8 lineage choice, but visualising coreceptor gene activity in individual selection intermediates has been technically challenging. It therefore remains unclear whether the sequence of coreceptor gene expression in selection intermediates follows a stereotypic pattern, or is responsive to signaling. Here we use single cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) to classify mouse thymocyte selection intermediates by coreceptor gene expression. In the unperturbed thymus, Cd4+Cd8a- selection intermediates appear before Cd4-Cd8a+ selection intermediates, but the timing of these subsets is flexible according to the strength of TCR signals. Our data show that selection intermediates discriminate MHC class prior to the loss of coreceptor expression and suggest a model where signal strength informs the timing of coreceptor gene activity and ultimately CD4/CD8 lineage choice.
33403477 | Role of hydrogen bonds and weak non-covalent interactions in the supramolecular assembly of 9-hydroxyeucaliptol: crystal structure, Hirshfeld surface analysis, and DFT calculations. The compound 1,3,3-trimethyl-2-oxabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-9-ol (9-hydroxyeucaliptol) has been prepared and characterized by single-crystal X-ray diffraction analysis, infrared, Raman, and UV-visible spectroscopies. The molecular geometry of the title compound was also investigated theoretically by density functional theory (DFT) calculations to compare with the experimental data. The substance crystallizes in the trigonal crystal system, space group P32 with Z = 9 molecules per unit cell. There are three independent molecules in the crystal asymmetric unit having the same chirality and showing some differences in the orientation of the H-atom of the hydroxyl group. The crystal structure of 9-hydroxyeucaliptol shows that the hydroxyl group presents an anti-conformation with respect to the O-atom of the ether group. The crystal packing of 9-hydroxyeucaliptol is stabilized by intermolecular O-H   O hydrogen bonds involving the hydroxyl groups of different molecules, which play a decisive role in the preferred conformation adopted in solid state. The intermolecular interactions observed in solid state were also studied through the Hirshfeld surface analysis and quantum theory of atoms in molecules (QTAIM) approaches. Energy framework calculations have also been carried out to analyze and visualize the topology of the supramolecular assembly, and the results indicate a significant contribution from electrostatic energy over the dispersion.
33625064 | Genetic Associations with Weight Gain among South Africans who Initiated Dolutegravir-Containing and Tenofovir-Containing Regimens. BACKGROUND: Excessive weight gain affects some HIV-positive individuals prescribed dolutegravir-containing regimens. Mechanisms underlying such weight gain are unknown. SETTING: Data and DNA from antiretroviral therapy-naive participants who were randomized to initiate dolutegravir with emtricitabine plus either tenofovir alafenamide (TAF) or tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF) in the ADVANCE study (NCT03122262) were used to characterize associations between human genetic polymorphisms and magnitude of weight gain. METHODS: Associations with percent weight gain from baseline to week 48 were assessed using multivariable linear regression models. Primary analyses a priori considered 59 polymorphisms and 10 genes of potential relevance to dolutegravir, TAF, or TDF pharmacokinetics. We also explored genome-wide associations. RESULTS: Among the 314 (92%) of 340 dolutegravir recipients who were successfully genotyped, 160 (47%) and 154 (45%) were randomized to TAF/emtricitabine and TDF/emtricitabine, respectively. In target gene analyses, the lowest P-values for the dolutegravir and tenofovir groups were ABCG2 rs4148149 (P = 7.0 x 10-4) and ABCC10 rs67861980 (P = 1.0 x 10-2), respectively, which were not significant after correction for multiple testing. In genome-wide analyses, the lowest P-values were rs7590091 in TMEM163 (P = 3.7 x 10-8) for dolutegravir, rs17137701 in LOC105379130 (P = 6.4 x 10-8) for TAF, and rs76771105 in LOC105371716 (P = 9.7 x 10-8) for TDF. CONCLUSIONS: Among South African participants in a randomized clinical trial of dolutegravir plus either TAF/emtricitabine or TDF/emtricitabine, we identified several potential genetic associations with weight gain. Only TMEM163 rs7590091 withstood correction for multiple testing. These associations warrant replication in other cohorts.
34710339 | Tissue Proteomic Analysis Identifies Mechanisms and Stages of Immunopathology in Fatal COVID-19. Immunopathology occurs in the lung and spleen in fatal coronavirus disease (COVID-19), involving monocytes/macrophages and plasma cells. Antiinflammatory therapy reduces mortality, but additional therapeutic targets are required. We aimed to gain mechanistic insight into COVID-19 immunopathology by targeted proteomic analysis of pulmonary and splenic tissues. Lung parenchymal and splenic tissue was obtained from 13 postmortem examinations of patients with fatal COVID-19. Control tissue was obtained from cancer resection samples (lung) and deceased organ donors (spleen). Protein was extracted from tissue by phenol extraction. Olink multiplex immunoassay panels were used for protein detection and quantification. Proteins with increased abundance in the lung included MCP-3, antiviral TRIM21, and prothrombotic TYMP. OSM and EN-RAGE/S100A12 abundance was correlated and associated with inflammation severity. Unsupervised clustering identified \early viral\ and \late inflammatory\ clusters with distinct protein abundance profiles, and differences in illness duration before death and presence of viral RNA. In the spleen, lymphocyte chemotactic factors and CD8A were decreased in abundance, and proapoptotic factors were increased. B-cell receptor signaling pathway components and macrophage colony stimulating factor (CSF-1) were also increased. Additional evidence for a subset of host factors (including DDX58, OSM, TYMP, IL-18, MCP-3, and CSF-1) was provided by overlap between 1) differential abundance in spleen and lung tissue; 2) meta-analysis of existing datasets; and 3) plasma proteomic data. This proteomic analysis of lung parenchymal and splenic tissue from fatal COVID-19 provides mechanistic insight into tissue antiviral responses, inflammation and disease stages, macrophage involvement, pulmonary thrombosis, splenic B-cell activation, and lymphocyte depletion.
35161412 | A Survey of Enhanced Cold Tolerance and Low-Temperature-Induced Anthocyanin Accumulation in a Novel Zoysia japonica Biotype. Zoysia japonica is a warm-season turfgrass that is extensively used in landscaping, sports fields, and golf courses worldwide. Uncovering the low-temperature response mechanism of Z. japonica can help to accelerate the development of new cold-tolerant cultivars, which could be used to prolong the ornamental and usage duration of turf. A novel Z. japonica biotype, YueNong-9 (YN-9), was collected from northeastern China for this study. Phenotypic measurements, cold-tolerance investigation, and whole-transcriptome surveys were performed on YN-9 and LanYin-3 (LY-3), the most popular Z. japonica cultivar in Southern China. The results indicated the following: YN-9 has longer second and third leaves than LY-3; when exposed to the natural low temperature during winter in Guangzhou, YN-9 accumulated 4.74 times more anthocyanin than LY-3; after cold acclimation and freezing treatment, 83.25 +- 9.55% of YN-9 survived while all LY-3 leaves died, and the dark green color index (DGCI) value of YN-9 was 1.78 times that of LY-3; in YN-9, there was a unique up-regulation of Phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL), Homeobox-leucine Zipper IV (HD-ZIP), and ATP-Binding Cassette transporter B8 (ABCB8) expressions, as well as a unique down-regulation of zinc-regulated transporters and iron-regulated transporter-like proteins (ZIPs) expression, which may promote anthocyanin biosynthesis, transport, and accumulation. In conclusion, YN-9 exhibited enhanced cold tolerance and is thus an excellent candidate for breeding cold-tolerant Z. japonica variety, and its unique low-temperature-induced anthocyanin accumulation and gene responses provide ideas and candidate genes for the study of low-temperature tolerance mechanisms and genetic engineering breeding.
35373506 | Wound repair, safety, and functional outcomes in reconstructive lower extremity foot and ankle surgery using a dehydrated amnion/chorion allograft membrane. Amniotic membranes are known to be rich in growth factors, cytokines, and matrix proteins, which can help support wound closure and may improve patient outcomes in foot and ankle surgical interventions. In this Institutional Review Board (IRB) approved clinical study, 21 consecutive patients undergoing lower extremity soft tissue and bone reconstruction surgery received dehydrated human amnion and chorion allograft (dHACA) placed as a covering over the deep layers of the surgical wound during closure. Wound healing complications were assessed and American Orthopaedic Foot and Ankle Society (AOFAS) scores were compiled from over a 1-year follow-up period. Summary statistics were calculated for average pain, function, and alignment. The average overall AOFAS pre-treatment score was 35.8 +- 23.0 and the post-treatment score significantly improved to 87.5 +- 6.4 (P = 3.7 x 10-10 ). The pain-score improved from pre-treatment at 10.0 +- 11.0 to post-treatment at 36.7 +- 4.8 (P = 5.0 x 10-5 ). The pre-treatment function score was 18.7 +- 12.9 and at post-treatment increased to 38.5 +- 5.7 (P = 5.8 x 10-5 ). Lastly, the alignment score at pre-treatment was 7.1 +- 4.4 and at post-treatment was 12.4 +- 2.6 (P = .001). These improvements in functional scores were accompanied with clinical observations of reduced surgical complications including a lack of wound dehisance in the cohort. These clinical findings suggest that the application of aseptically processed dHACA may reduce wound complications and as such may aide in clinical improvements in foot and ankle surgical interventions however a larger comparative trial should be considered to validate these initial findings.
35414868 | Polymeric dipicolylamine based mass tags for mass cytometry. Mass cytometry is an emerging powerful bioanalytical technique for high-dimensional single-cell analysis. In this technique, cells are stained with metal-isotope-tagged antibodies and are analyzed by an inductively coupled plasma time-of-flight mass spectrometer. While there are more than 100 stable isotopes available in the m/z 75 to 209 detection range of the instrument, only about 50 parameters can be measured per cell because current reagents are metal-chelating polymers with pendant aminocarboxylate chelators that only bind hard metal ions such as the rare earths and Bi3+. Here we describe the synthesis and characterization of a new type of metal-chelating polymer with pendant dipicolylamine chelators suited to binding intermediate to soft metals such as rhenium and platinum. We introduce two different conjugation strategies, a thiol-maleimide reaction that works well for rhenium, and a DBCO-azide click reaction designed to avoid potential complications of Pt and other heavy metals interacting with thiol groups. We show that these polymers can serve as new elemental mass tags for mass cytometry. Antibody-polymer conjugates of CD20 and CD8a prepared by both coupling reactions were employed in conjunction with commercial metal-conjugated antibodies for multi-parameter single-cell immunoassays.
36437532 | Novel Genetic Determinants of Dental Maturation in Children. Dental occlusion requires harmonious development of teeth, jaws, and other elements of the craniofacial complex, which are regulated by environmental and genetic factors. We performed the first genome-wide association study (GWAS) on dental development (DD) using the Demirjian radiographic method. Radiographic assessments from participants of the Generation R Study (primary study population, N1 = 2,793; mean age of 9.8 y) were correlated with ~30 million genetic variants while adjusting for age, sex, and genomic principal components (proxy for population stratification). Variants associated with DD at genome-wide significant level (P < 5 x 10-8) mapped to 16q12.2 (IRX5) (lead variant rs3922616, B = 0.16; P = 2.2 x 10-8). We used Fisher's combined probability tests weighted by sample size to perform a meta-analysis (N = 14,805) combining radiographic DD at a mean age of 9.8 y from Generation R with data from a previous GWAS (N2 = 12,012) on number of teeth (NT) in infants used as proxy of DD at a mean age of 9.8 y (including the ALSPAC and NFBC1966). This GWAS meta-analysis revealed 3 novel loci mapping to 7p15.3 (IGF2BP3: P = 3.2 x 10-8), 14q13.3 (PAX9: P = 1.9 x 10-8), and 16q12.2 (IRX5: P = 1.2 x 10-9) and validated 8 previously reported NT loci. A polygenic allele score constructed from these 11 loci was associated with radiographic DD in an independent Generation R set of children (N = 703; B = 0.05, P = 0.004). Furthermore, profiling of the identified genes across an atlas of murine and human stem cells observed expression in the cells involved in the formation of bone and/or dental tissues (>0.3 frequency per kilobase of transcript per million mapped reads), likely reflecting functional specialization. Our findings provide biological insight into the polygenic architecture of the pediatric dental maturation process.
36454761 | The kinase occupancy of T cell coreceptors reconsidered. The sensitivity of the alphabeta T cell receptor (TCR) is enhanced by the coreceptors CD4 and CD8alphabeta, which are expressed primarily by cells of the helper and cytotoxic T cell lineages, respectively. The coreceptors bind to major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules and associate intracellularly with the Src-family kinase Lck, which catalyzes TCR phosphorylation during receptor triggering. Although coreceptor/kinase occupancy was initially believed to be high, a recent study suggested that most coreceptors exist in an Lck-free state, and that this low occupancy helps to effect TCR antigen discrimination. Here, using the same method, we found instead that the CD4/Lck interaction was stoichiometric (~100%) and that the CD8alphabeta/Lck interaction was substantial (~60%). We confirmed our findings in live cells using fluorescence cross-correlation spectroscopy (FCCS) to measure coreceptor/Lck codiffusion in situ. After introducing structurally guided mutations into the intracellular domain of CD4, we used FCCS to also show that stoichiometric coupling to Lck required an amphipathic alpha-helix present in CD4 but not CD8alpha. In double-positive cells expressing equal numbers of both coreceptors, but limiting amounts of kinase, CD4 outcompeted CD8alphabeta for Lck. In T cells, TCR signaling induced CD4/Lck oligomerization but did not affect the high levels of CD4/Lck occupancy. These findings help settle the question of kinase occupancy and suggest that the binding advantages that CD4 has over CD8 could be important when Lck levels are limiting.
36790221 | Germline variation in RASAL2 may predict survival in patients with RAS-activated colorectal cancer. BACKGROUND: Therapeutic agents that specifically target patients with RAS mutant colorectal cancer (CRC) are needed. We sought potential drug targets by relating genome-wide association study and survival data in patients with advanced CRC profiled for mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway mutations. METHODS: In total, 694 patients from the clinical trials COIN and COIN-B had MAPK-activated CRCs (assigned as KRAS, NRAS, or BRAF mutant). Genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), gene, and gene-set analyses were performed to identify determinants of survival. For rs12028023 in RAS protein activator-like 2 (RASAL2), we studied its effect by MAPK pathway activation status (by comparing to 760 patients without MAPK-activated CRCs), MAPK gene mutation status, surface area of the primary tumor (as a marker of proliferation), and expression on RASAL2. RESULTS: In MAGMA genome-wide analyses, RASAL2 was the most significant gene associated with survival (p = 2.0 x 10-5 ). Patients carrying the minor (A) allele in the lead SNP, rs12028023 in intron 1 of RASAL2, had a median increase in survival of 167 days as compared with patients carrying the major allele. rs12028023 was predictive for survival by MAPK-activation status (pZ-test  = 2.1 x 10-3 ). Furthermore, rs12028023 improved survival in patients with RAS mutant (hazard ratio [HR] = 0.62, 95% confidence intervals [CI] = 0.5-0.8, p = 3.4 x 10-5 ) but not BRAF mutant (p = 0.87) CRCs. The rs12028023 A-allele was associated with reduced surface area of the primary tumor (Beta = -0.037, standard error [SE] = 0.017, p = 3.2 x 10-2 ) and reduced RASAL2 expression in cultured fibroblasts (p = 1.6 x 10-11 ). CONCLUSION: Our data demonstrate a prognostic role for RASAL2 in patients with MAPK-activated CRCs, with potential as a therapeutic target.
36900581 | Design of Lactococcus lactis Strains Producing Garvicin A and/or Garvicin Q, Either Alone or Together with Nisin A or Nisin Z and High Antimicrobial Activity against Lactococcus garvieae. Lactococcus garvieae is a main ichthyopathogen in rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss, Walbaum) farming, although bacteriocinogenic L. garvieae with antimicrobial activity against virulent strains of this species have also been identified. Some of the bacteriocins characterized, such as garvicin A (GarA) and garvicin Q (GarQ), may show potential for the control of the virulent L. garvieae in food, feed and other biotechnological applications. In this study, we report on the design of Lactococcus lactis strains that produce the bacteriocins GarA and/or GarQ, either alone or together with nisin A (NisA) or nisin Z (NisZ). Synthetic genes encoding the signal peptide of the lactococcal protein Usp45 (SPusp45), fused to mature GarA (lgnA) and/or mature GarQ (garQ) and their associated immunity genes (lgnI and garI, respectively), were cloned into the protein expression vectors pMG36c, which contains the P32 constitutive promoter, and pNZ8048c, which contains the inducible PnisA promoter. The transformation of recombinant vectors into lactococcal cells allowed for the production of GarA and/or GarQ by L. lactis subsp. cremoris NZ9000 and their co-production with NisA by Lactococcus lactis subsp. lactis DPC5598 and L. lactis subsp. lactis BB24. The strains L. lactis subsp. cremoris WA2-67 (pJFQI), a producer of GarQ and NisZ, and L. lactis subsp. cremoris WA2-67 (pJFQIAI), a producer of GarA, GarQ and NisZ, demonstrated the highest antimicrobial activity (5.1- to 10.7-fold and 17.3- to 68.2-fold, respectively) against virulent L. garvieae strains.
37631046 | Adjuvanted-SARS-CoV-2 Spike Protein-Based Microparticulate Vaccine Delivered by Dissolving Microneedles Induces Humoral, Mucosal, and Cellular Immune Responses in Mice. COVID-19 continues to cause an increase in the number of cases and deaths worldwide. Due to the ever-mutating nature of the virus, frequent vaccination against COVID-19 is anticipated. Most of the approved SARS-CoV-2 vaccines are administered using the conventional intramuscular route, causing vaccine hesitancy. Thus, there is a need for an effective, non-invasive vaccination strategy against COVID-19. This study evaluated the synergistic effects of a subunit microparticulate vaccine delivered using microneedles. The microparticles encapsulated a highly immunogenic subunit protein of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, such as the spike protein's receptor binding domain (RBD). Adjuvants were also incorporated to enhance the spike RBD-specific immune response. Our vaccination study reveals that a microneedle-based vaccine delivering these microparticles induced spike RBD-specific IgM, IgG, IgG1, IgG2a, and IgA antibodies. The vaccine also generated high levels of CD4+ and CD8a+ molecules in the secondary lymphoid organs. Overall, dissolving microneedles delivery spike RBD antigen in microparticulate form induced a robust immune response, paving the way for an alternative self-administrable, non-invasive vaccination strategy against COVID-19.
38253539 | Divergent immune microenvironments in two tumor nodules from a patient with mismatch repair-deficient prostate cancer. Patients with prostate cancer (PC) generally do not respond favorably to immune checkpoint inhibitors, which may be due to a low abundance of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes even when mutational load is high. Here, we identified a patient who presented with high-grade primary prostate cancer with two adjacent tumor nodules. While both nodules were mismatch repair-deficient (MMRd), exhibited pathogenic MSH2 and MSH6 alterations, had a high tumor mutational burden (TMB), and demonstrated high microsatellite instability (MSI), they had markedly distinct immune phenotypes. The first displayed a dense infiltrate of lymphocytes (\hot nodule\), while the second displayed significantly fewer infiltrating lymphocytes (\cold nodule\). Whole-exome DNA analysis found that both nodules shared many identical mutations, indicating that they were derived from a single clone. However, the cold nodule appeared to be sub-clonal relative to the hot nodule, suggesting divergent evolution of the cold nodule from the hot nodule. Whole-transcriptome RNA analysis found that the cold nodule demonstrated lower expression of genes related to antigen presentation (HLA) and, paradoxically, classical tumor immune tolerance markers such as PD-L1 (CD274) and CTLA-4. Immune cell deconvolution suggested that the hot nodule was enriched not only in CD8+ and CD4 + T lymphocytes, but also in M1 macrophages, activated NK cells, and gammadelta T cells compared to the cold nodule. This case highlights that MMRd/TMB-high PC can evolve to minimize an anti-tumor immune response, and nominates downregulation of antigen presentation machinery (HLA loss) as a potential mechanism of adaptive immune evasion in PC.
38258518 | Establishing mouse and human oral esophageal organoids to investigate the tumor immune response. Organoid culture systems are very powerful models that recapitulate in vivo organ development and disease pathogenesis, offering great promise in basic research, drug screening and precision medicine. However, the application of organoids derived from patients with cancer to immunotherapeutic research is a relatively untapped area. Esophageal cancer is one of the most lethal malignancies worldwide, including two major pathological subtypes: esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) and esophageal adenocarcinoma. ESCC shares many biological and genomic features with oral squamous cell cancers. Herein, we provide a versatile protocol for the establishment and maintenance of oral and esophageal organoid cultures derived from both murine and human samples. We describe culture conditions for organoids derived from normal tongue, esophagus and gastroesophageal junction, esophageal cancer and Barrett's esophagus. In addition, we establish an ex vivo model by co-culturing patient tumor-derived organoids and autologous CD8+ T lymphocytes to assess CD8+ T cell-mediated tumor killing. Our protocol can also be modified for organoid establishment from other squamous epithelia and carcinomas. The co-culture model can serve as a template for studies of other tumor-immune cell interactions and the efficacy of immune checkpoint blockade therapy.
38260393 | DNA origami vaccine (DoriVac) nanoparticles improve both humoral and cellular immune responses to infectious diseases. Current SARS-CoV-2 vaccines have demonstrated robust induction of neutralizing antibodies and CD4+ T cell activation, however CD8+ responses are variable, and the duration of immunity and protection against variants are limited. Here we repurposed our DNA origami vaccine platform, DoriVac, for targeting infectious viruses, namely SARS-CoV-2, HIV, and Ebola. The DNA origami nanoparticle, conjugated with infectious-disease-specific HR2 peptides, which act as highly conserved antigens, and CpG adjuvant at precise nanoscale spacing, induced neutralizing antibodies, Th1 CD4+ T cells, and CD8+ T cells in naive mice, with significant improvement over a bolus control. Pre-clinical studies using lymph-node-on-a-chip systems validated that DoriVac, when conjugated with antigenic peptides or proteins, induced promising cellular immune responses in human cells. These results suggest that DoriVac holds potential as a versatile, modular vaccine platform, capable of inducing both humoral and cellular immunities. The programmability of this platform underscores its potential utility in addressing future pandemics.
38271187 | Tumor Pigmentation Does Not Affect Light-Activated Belzupacap Sarotalocan Treatment but Influences Macrophage Polarization in a Murine Melanoma Model. Purpose: Pigmentation in uveal melanoma is associated with increased malignancy and is known as a barrier for photodynamic therapy. We investigated the role of pigmentation in tumor behavior and the response to light-activated Belzupacap sarotalocan (Bel-sar) treatment in a pigmented (wild type) and nonpigmented (tyrosinase knock-out [TYR knock-out]) cell line in vitro and in a murine model. Methods: The B16F10 (TYR knock-out) was developed using CRISPR/Cas9. After the treatment with light-activated Bel-sar, cytotoxicity and exposure of damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs) were measured by flow cytometry. Treated tumor cells were co-cultured with bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) and dendritic cells (DCs) to assess phagocytosis and activation. Both cell lines were injected subcutaneously in syngeneic C57BL/6 mice. Results: Knock-out of the tyrosinase gene in B16F10 led to loss of pigmentation and immature melanosomes. Pigmented tumors contained more M1 and fewer M2 macrophages compared with amelanotic tumors. Bel-sar treatment induced near complete cell death, accompanied with enhanced exposure of DAMPs in both cell lines, resulting in enhanced phagocytosis of BMDMs and maturation of DCs. Bel-sar treatment induced a shift to M1 macrophages and delayed tumor growth in both in vivo tumor models. Following treatment, especially the pigmented tumors and their draining lymph nodes contained IFN-gamma positive CD8+T cells. Conclusions: Pigmentation influenced the type of infiltrating macrophages in the tumor, with more M1 macrophages in pigmented tumors. Belzupacap sarotalocan treatment induced immunogenic cell death and tumor growth delay in pigmented as well as in nonpigmented models and stimulated M1 macrophage influx in both models.
38297382 | Outcomes of antiretroviral treatment for 0-14-year-old children living with HIV in Ganzhou, China, 2006-2023. BACKGROUND: Studies on antiretroviral therapy (ART) in children living with HIV (CLHIV) are limited due to the small population and low accession rate of ART. METHODS: All 0-14-year-old CLHIV admitted to the Ganzhou Center for Disease Control and Prevention from January 2006 to June 2023 were included retrospectively. The information of treatment regimens, disease progression, and laboratory tests of the patients under ART were used to explore the outcomes and impacts of long-term ART. The normality of all the data was tested by the Shapiro-Wilk test. RESULTS: From 2006 to 2023, 18 CLHIV were reported in Ganzhou. Among them, 11 received ART and were followed up for 60.0 +- 48.4 months. After receiving ART, the median viral load of them decreased from 89,600 copies/ml to 22 copies/ml (P = 0.007), the median CD4+ T cell count increased from 380.7 cells/microL to 661.9 cells/microL (P = 0.028), and the median CD8+ T cell count decreased from 1065.8 cells/microL to 983.3 cells/microL (P = 0.584). The laboratory test results regarding liver function, renal function, blood cell count, and glucolipid metabolism tended to be within normal reference ranges, and the mean height-for-age z-score and weight-for-age z-score increased. However, all the three CLHIV who received cotrimoxazole developed pneumocystis carinii pneumonia, upper respiratory infection, skin lesions, bacterial pneumonia and/or thrush; the mean body-mass-index-for-age z-score decreased from 0.52 to -0.63. CONCLUSION: For CLHIV, ART could effectively inhibit the replication of HIV and improve the immune function of patients. More studies that focus on ART in CLHIV are urgently needed.
38299155 | Analyses of human vaccine-specific circulating and bone marrow-resident B cell populations reveal benefit of delayed vaccine booster dosing with blood-stage malaria antigens. We have previously reported primary endpoints of a clinical trial testing two vaccine platforms for the delivery of Plasmodium vivax malaria DBPRII: viral vectors (ChAd63, MVA), and protein/adjuvant (PvDBPII with 50microg Matrix-M  adjuvant). Delayed boosting was necessitated due to trial halts during the pandemic and provides an opportunity to investigate the impact of dosing regimens. Here, using flow cytometry - including agnostic definition of B cell populations with the clustering tool CITRUS - we report enhanced induction of DBPRII-specific plasma cell and memory B cell responses in protein/adjuvant versus viral vector vaccinees. Within protein/adjuvant groups, delayed boosting further improved B cell immunogenicity compared to a monthly boosting regimen. Consistent with this, delayed boosting also drove more durable anti-DBPRII serum IgG. In an independent vaccine clinical trial with the P. falciparum malaria RH5.1 protein/adjuvant (50microg Matrix-M ) vaccine candidate, we similarly observed enhanced circulating B cell responses in vaccinees receiving a delayed final booster. Notably, a higher frequency of vaccine-specific (putatively long-lived) plasma cells was detected in the bone marrow of these delayed boosting vaccinees by ELISPOT and correlated strongly with serum IgG. Finally, following controlled human malaria infection with P. vivax parasites in the DBPRII trial, in vivo growth inhibition was observed to correlate with DBPRII-specific B cell and serum IgG responses. In contrast, the CD4+ and CD8+ T cell responses were impacted by vaccine platform but not dosing regimen and did not correlate with in vivo growth inhibition in a challenge model. Taken together, our DBPRII and RH5 data suggest an opportunity for protein/adjuvant dosing regimen optimisation in the context of rational vaccine development against pathogens where protection is antibody-mediated.
38400096 | Optimization and Validation of a Harmonized Protocol for Generating Therapeutic-Grade Dendritic Cells in a Randomized Phase II Clinical Trial, Using Two Varied Antigenic Sources. Autologous dendritic cell (DC)-based immunotherapy is a cell-based advanced therapy medicinal product (ATMP) that was first introduced more than three decades ago. In the current study, our objective was to establish a harmonized protocol using two varied antigenic sources and a good manufacturing practice (GMP)-compliant, manual method for generating clinical-grade DCs at a limited-resource academic setting. After obtaining ethical committee-approved informed consent, the recruited patients underwent leukapheresis, and single-batch DC production was carried out. Using responder-independent flow cytometric assays as quality control (QC) criteria, we propose a differentiation and maturation index (DI and MI, respectively), calculated with the QC cut-off and actual scores of each batch for comparison. Changes during cryopreservation and personnel variation were assessed periodically for up to two to three years. Using our harmonized batch production protocol, the average DI was 1.39 and MI was 1.25. Allogenic responder proliferation was observed in all patients, while IFN-gamma secretion, evaluated using flow cytometry, was detected in 10/36 patients and significantly correlated with CD8+ T cell proliferation (p value-0.0002). Tracking the viability and phenotype of cryopreserved MDCs showed a >90% viability for up to three years, while a mature DC phenotype was retained for up to one year. Our results confirm that the manual/semi-automated protocol was simple, consistent, and cost-effective, without the requirement for expensive equipment and without compromising on the quality of the final product.
38479384 | Bile acids modified by the intestinal microbiota promote colorectal cancer growth by suppressing CD8+ T cell effector functions. Concentrations of the secondary bile acid, deoxycholic acid (DCA), are aberrantly elevated in colorectal cancer (CRC) patients, but the consequences remain poorly understood. Here, we screened a library of gut microbiota-derived metabolites and identified DCA as a negative regulator for CD8+ T cell effector function. Mechanistically, DCA suppressed CD8+ T cell responses by targeting plasma membrane Ca2+ ATPase (PMCA) to inhibit Ca2+-nuclear factor of activated T cells (NFAT)2 signaling. In CRC patients, CD8+ T cell effector function negatively correlated with both DCA concentration and expression of a bacterial DCA biosynthetic gene. Bacteria harboring DCA biosynthetic genes suppressed CD8+ T cells effector function and promoted tumor growth in mice. This effect was abolished by disrupting bile acid metabolism via bile acid chelation, genetic ablation of bacterial DCA biosynthetic pathway, or specific bacteriophage. Our study demonstrated causation between microbial DCA metabolism and anti-tumor CD8+ T cell response in CRC, suggesting potential directions for anti-tumor therapy.
38487680 | Design of a multi-epitope vaccine against goatpox virus using an immunoinformatics approach. Introduction: Goatpox, a severe infectious disease caused by goatpox virus (GTPV), leads to enormous economic losses in the livestock industry. Traditional live attenuated vaccines cause serious side effects and exist a risk of dispersal. Therefore, it is urgent to develop efficient and safer vaccines to prevent and control of GTPV. Methods: In the present study, we are aimed to design a multi-epitope subunit vaccine against GTPV using an immunoinformatics approach. Various immunodominant cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) epitopes, helper T lymphocytes (HTL) epitopes, and B-cell epitopes from P32, L1R, and 095 proteins of GTPV were screened and liked by the AAY, GPGPG, and KK connectors, respectively. Furthermore, an adjuvant beta-defensin was attached to the vaccine's N-terminal using the EAAAK linker to enhance immunogenicity. Results: The constructed vaccine was soluble, non-allergenic and non-toxic and exhibited high levels of antigenicity and immunogenicity. The vaccine's 3D structure was subsequently predicted, refined and validated, resulting in an optimized model with a Z-value of -3.4. Molecular docking results demonstrated that the vaccine had strong binding affinity with TLR2(-27.25 kcal/mol), TLR3(-39.84 kcal/mol), and TLR4(-59.42 kcal/mol). Molecular dynamics simulation results indicated that docked vaccine-TLR complexes were stable. Immune simulation analysis suggested that the vaccine can induce remarkable increase in antibody titers of IgG and IgM, higher levels of IFN-gamma and IL-2. Conclusion: The designed GTPV multi-epitope vaccine is structurally stable and can induce robust humoral and cellular immune responses, which may be a promising vaccine candidate against GTPV.
38508137 | DNAJB1-PRKACA fusion neoantigens elicit rare endogenous T cell responses that potentiate cell therapy for fibrolamellar carcinoma. Fibrolamellar carcinoma (FLC) is a liver tumor with a high mortality burden and few treatment options. A promising therapeutic vulnerability in FLC is its driver mutation, a conserved DNAJB1-PRKACA gene fusion that could be an ideal target neoantigen for immunotherapy. In this study, we aim to define endogenous CD8 T cell responses to this fusion in FLC patients and evaluate fusion-specific T cell receptors (TCRs) for use in cellular immunotherapies. We observe that fusion-specific CD8 T cells are rare and that FLC patient TCR repertoires lack large clusters of related TCR sequences characteristic of potent antigen-specific responses, potentially explaining why endogenous immune responses are insufficient to clear FLC tumors. Nevertheless, we define two functional fusion-specific TCRs, one of which has strong anti-tumor activity in vivo. Together, our results provide insights into the fragmented nature of neoantigen-specific repertoires in humans and indicate routes for clinical development of successful immunotherapies for FLC.
38570506 | Loss of CREBBP and KMT2D cooperate to accelerate lymphomagenesis and shape the lymphoma immune microenvironment. Despite regulating overlapping gene enhancers and pathways, CREBBP and KMT2D mutations recurrently co-occur in germinal center (GC) B cell-derived lymphomas, suggesting potential oncogenic cooperation. Herein, we report that combined haploinsufficiency of Crebbp and Kmt2d induces a more severe mouse lymphoma phenotype (vs either allele alone) and unexpectedly confers an immune evasive microenvironment manifesting as CD8+ T-cell exhaustion and reduced infiltration. This is linked to profound repression of immune synapse genes that mediate crosstalk with T-cells, resulting in aberrant GC B cell fate decisions. From the epigenetic perspective, we observe interaction and mutually dependent binding and function of CREBBP and KMT2D on chromatin. Their combined deficiency preferentially impairs activation of immune synapse-responsive super-enhancers, pointing to a particular dependency for both co-activators at these specialized regulatory elements. Together, our data provide an example where chromatin modifier mutations cooperatively shape and induce an immune-evasive microenvironment to facilitate lymphomagenesis.
38612743 | Predicting Response to Immunotargeted Therapy in Endometrial Cancer via Tumor Immune Microenvironment: A Multicenter, Observational Study. Only one-third of patients with advanced MSS/pMMR endometrial cancer exhibit a lasting response to the combination treatment of Pembrolizumab and Lenvatinib. The combined administration of these two drugs is based on Lenvatinib's ability to modulate the tumor microenvironment, enabling Pembrolizumab to exert its effect. These findings underscore the importance of exploring tumor microenvironment parameters to identify markers that can accurately select candidates for this type of therapy. An open non-randomized observational association study was conducted at six clinical centers, involving a total of 28 patients with advanced MSS/pMMR endometrial cancer who received Pembrolizumab and Lenvatinib therapy. Using TSA-associated multiplex immunofluorescence, we analyzed the proportion of CD8+ T lymphocytes, CD20+ B lymphocytes, FoxP3+ T regulatory lymphocytes, and CD163+ macrophages in tumor samples prior to immunotargeted therapy. The percentage of CD20+ B lymphocytes and the CD8-to-CD20 lymphocytes ratio was significantly higher in patients who responded to treatment compared to non-responders (responders vs. non-responders: 0.24 (0.1-1.24)% vs. 0.08 (0.00-0.15)%, p = 0.0114; 1.44 (0.58-2.70) arb. unit vs. 19.00 (3.80-34.78) arb. unit, p = 0.0031). The sensitivity and specificity of these biomarkers were 85.71% and 70.59%, and 85.71% and 85.71%, respectively. The proportion of CD20+ B lymphocytes and the CD8-to-CD20 lymphocytes ratio in the stroma of endometrial cancer serves as both a prognostic marker of response to immunotargeted therapy and a prognostic factor for progression-free survival in patients.
38623763 | Immunoproteasomal Processing of IsoLG-Adducted Proteins Is Essential for Hypertension. BACKGROUND: Hypertension is characterized by CD8+ T cell activation and infiltration into peripheral tissues. CD8+ T cell activation requires proteasomal processing of antigenic proteins. It has become clear that isoLG (isolevuglandin)-adduced peptides are antigenic in hypertension; however, IsoLGs inhibit the constitutive proteasome. We hypothesized that immunoproteasomal processing of isoLG-adducts is essential for CD8+ T cell activation and inflammation in hypertension. METHODS: IsoLG adduct processing was studied in murine dendritic cells (DCs), endothelial cells (ECs), and B8 fibroblasts. The role of the proteasome and the immunoproteasome in Ang II (angiotensin II)-induced hypertension was studied in C57BL/6 mice treated with bortezomib or the immunoproteasome inhibitor PR957 and by studying mice lacking 3 critical immunoproteasome subunits (triple knockout mouse). We also examined hypertension in mice lacking the critical immunoproteasome subunit LMP7 specifically in either DCs or ECs. RESULTS: We found that oxidant stress increases the presence of isoLG adducts within MHC-I (class I major histocompatibility complex), and immunoproteasome overexpression augments this. Pharmacological or genetic inhibition of the immunoproteasome attenuated hypertension and tissue inflammation. Conditional deletion of LMP7 in either DCs or ECs attenuated hypertension and vascular inflammation. Finally, we defined the role of the innate immune receptors stimulator of interferon genes and TLR7/8 (toll-like receptor 7/8) as drivers of LMP7 expression in ECs. CONCLUSIONS: These studies define a previously unknown role of the immunoproteasome in DCs and ECs in CD8+ T cell activation. The immunoproteasome in DCs and ECs is critical for isoLG-adduct presentation to CD8+ T cells, and in the endothelium, this guides homing and infiltration of T cells to specific tissues.
33345622 | Increased expression of hypoxia-induced factor 1alpha mRNA and its related genes in myeloid blood cells from critically ill COVID-19 patients. BACKGROUND: COVID-19 counts 46 million people infected and killed more than 1.2 million. Hypoxaemia is one of the main clinical manifestations, especially in severe cases. HIF1alpha is a master transcription factor involved in the cellular response to oxygen levels. The immunopathogenesis of this severe form of COVID-19 is poorly understood. METHODS: We performed scRNAseq from leukocytes from five critically ill COVID-19 patients and characterized the expression of hypoxia-inducible factor1alpha and its transcriptionally regulated genes. Also performed metanalysis from the publicly available RNAseq data from COVID-19 bronchoalveolar cells. RESULTS: Critically-ill COVID-19 patients show a shift towards an immature myeloid profile in peripheral blood cells, including band neutrophils, immature monocytes, metamyelocytes, monocyte-macrophages, monocytoid precursors, and promyelocytes-myelocytes, together with mature monocytes and segmented neutrophils. May be the result of a physiological response known as emergency myelopoiesis. These cellular subsets and bronchoalveolar cells express HIF1alpha and their transcriptional targets related to inflammation (CXCL8, CXCR1, CXCR2, and CXCR4); virus sensing, (TLR2 and TLR4); and metabolism (SLC2A3, PFKFB3, PGK1, GAPDH and SOD2). CONCLUSIONS: The up-regulation and participation of HIF1alpha in events such as inflammation, immunometabolism, and TLR make it a potential molecular marker for COVID-19 severity and, interestingly, could represent a potential target for molecular therapy. Key messages Critically ill COVID-19 patients show emergency myelopoiesis. HIF1alpha and its transcriptionally regulated genes are expressed in immature myeloid cells which could serve as molecular targets. HIF1alpha and its transcriptionally regulated genes is also expressed in lung cells from critically ill COVID-19 patients which may partially explain the hypoxia related events.
33532792 | Distinctive features of SARS-CoV-2-specific T cells predict recovery from severe COVID-19. Although T cells are likely players in SARS-CoV-2 immunity, little is known about the phenotypic features of SARS-CoV-2-specific T cells associated with recovery from severe COVID-19. We analyzed T cells from longitudinal specimens of 34 COVID-19 patients with severities ranging from mild (outpatient) to critical culminating in death. Relative to patients that succumbed, individuals that recovered from severe COVID-19 harbored elevated and increasing numbers of SARS-CoV-2-specific T cells capable of homeostatic proliferation. In contrast, fatal COVID-19 displayed elevated numbers of SARS-CoV-2-specific regulatory T cells and a time-dependent escalation in activated bystander CXCR4+ T cells. Together with the demonstration of increased proportions of inflammatory CXCR4+ T cells in the lungs of severe COVID-19 patients, these results support a model whereby lung-homing T cells activated through bystander effects contribute to immunopathology, while a robust, non-suppressive SARS-CoV-2-specific T cell response limits pathogenesis and promotes recovery from severe COVID-19.
34054793 | Identify. Quantify. Predict. Why Immunologists Should Widely Use Molecular Imaging for Coronavirus Disease 2019. Molecular imaging using PET/CT or PET/MRI has evolved from an experimental imaging modality at its inception in 1972 to an integral component of diagnostic procedures in oncology, and, to lesser extent, in cardiology and neurology, by successfully offering in-vivo imaging and quantitation of key pathophysiological targets or molecular signatures, such as glucose metabolism in cancerous disease. Apart from metabolism probes, novel radiolabeled peptide and antibody PET tracers, including radiolabeled monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) have entered the clinical arena, providing the in-vivo capability to collect target-specific quantitative in-vivo data on cellular and molecular pathomechanisms on a whole-body scale, and eventually, extract imaging biomarkers possibly serving as prognostic indicators. The success of molecular imaging in mapping disease severity on a whole-body scale, and directing targeted therapies in oncology possibly could translate to the management of Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19), by identifying, localizing, and quantifying involvement of different immune mediated responses to the infection with SARS-COV2 during the course of acute infection and possible, chronic courses with long-term effects on specific organs. The authors summarize current knowledge for medical imaging in COVID-19 in general with a focus on molecular imaging technology and provide a perspective for immunologists interested in molecular imaging research using validated and immediately available molecular probes, as well as possible future targets, highlighting key targets for tailored treatment approaches as brought up by key opinion leaders.
34153417 | Construction of an autophagy interaction network based on competitive endogenous RNA reveals the key pathways and central genes of SARS-CoV-2 infection in vivo. As of April 1, 2021, more than 2.8 million people have died of SARS-CoV-2 infection. In addition, the mutation of virus strains that have accompanied the pandemic has brought more severe challenges to pandemic control. Host microRNAs (miRNAs) are widely involved in a variety of biological processes of coronavirus infection, including autophagy in SARS-CoV-2 infection. However, the mechanisms underlying miRNAs involved in autophagy in SARS-CoV-2 infection have not been fully elucidated. In this study, the miRNA and messenger RNA (mRNA) expression profiles of patients with SARS-CoV-2 infection were investigated based on raw data from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) datasets, and potential novel biomarkers of autophagy were revealed by bioinformatics analyses. We identified 32 differentially expressed miRNAs and 332 differentially expressed mRNAs in patients with SARS-CoV-2 infection. Cytokine receptor related pathways were the most enriched pathways for differentially expressed miRNAs identified by pathway analysis. Most importantly, an autophagy interaction network, which was associated with the pathological processes of SARS-CoV-2 infection, especially with the cytokine storm, was constructed. In this network, hsa-miR-340-3p, hsa-miR-652-3p, hsa-miR-4772-5p, hsa-miR-192-5p, TP53INP2, and CCR2 may be biomarkers that predict changes in mild SARS-CoV-2 infection. Some molecules, including hsa-miR-1291 and CXCR4, were considered potential targets to predict the emergence of severe symptoms in SARS-CoV-2 infection. To our knowledge, this study provided the first profile analysis of an autophagy interaction network in SARS-CoV-2 infection and revealed several novel autophagy-related biomarkers for understanding the pathogenesis of SARS-CoV-2 infection in vivo.
34260965 | Distinctive features of SARS-CoV-2-specific T cells predict recovery from severe COVID-19. Although T cells are likely players in severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) immunity, little is known about the phenotypic features of SARS-CoV-2-specific T cells associated with recovery from severe coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). We analyze T cells from 34 individuals with COVID-19 with severity ranging from mild (outpatient) to critical, culminating in death. Relative to individuals who succumbed, individuals who recovered from severe COVID-19 harbor elevated and increasing numbers of SARS-CoV-2-specific T cells capable of homeostatic proliferation. In contrast, fatal COVID-19 cases display elevated numbers of SARS-CoV-2-specific regulatory T cells and a time-dependent escalation in activated bystander CXCR4+ T cells, as assessed by longitudinal sampling. Together with the demonstration of increased proportions of inflammatory CXCR4+ T cells in the lungs of individuals with severe COVID-19, these results support a model where lung-homing T cells activated through bystander effects contribute to immunopathology, whereas a robust, non-suppressive SARS-CoV-2-specific T cell response limits pathogenesis and promotes recovery from severe COVID-19.
34530915 | Association of HLA genotypes, AB0 blood type and chemokine receptor 5 mutant CD195 with the clinical course of COVID-19. BACKGROUND: COVID-19, the pandemic disease caused by infection with SARS-CoV-2, may take highly variable clinical courses, ranging from symptom-free and pauci-symptomatic to fatal disease. The goal of the current study was to assess the association of COVID-19 clinical courses controlled by patients' adaptive immune responses without progression to severe disease with patients' Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) genetics, AB0 blood group antigens, and the presence or absence of near-loss-of-function delta 32 deletion mutant of the C-C chemokine receptor type 5 (CCR5). PATIENT AND METHODS: An exploratory observational study including 157 adult COVID-19 convalescent patients was performed with a median follow-up of 250 days. The impact of different HLA genotypes, AB0 blood group antigens, and the CCR5 mutant CD195 were investigated for their role in the clinical course of COVID-19. In addition, this study addressed levels of severity and morbidity of COVID-19. The association of the immunogenetic background parameters were further related to patients' humoral antiviral immune response patterns by longitudinal observation. RESULTS: Univariate HLA analyses identified putatively protective HLA alleles (HLA class II DRB1*01:01 and HLA class I B*35:01, with a trend for DRB1*03:01). They were associated with reduced durations of disease instead decreased (rather than increased) total anti-S IgG levels. They had a higher virus neutralizing capacity compared to non-carriers. Conversely, analyses also identified HLA alleles (HLA class II DQB1*03:02 und HLA class I B*15:01) not associated with such benefit in the patient cohort of this study. Hierarchical testing by Cox regression analyses confirmed the significance of the protective effect of the HLA alleles identified (when assessed in composite) in terms of disease duration, whereas AB0 blood group antigen heterozygosity was found to be significantly associated with disease severity (rather than duration) in our cohort. A suggestive association of a heterozygous CCR5 delta 32 mutation status with prolonged disease duration was implied by univariate analyses but could not be confirmed by hierarchical multivariate testing. CONCLUSION: The current study shows that the presence of HLA class II DRB1*01:01 and HLA class I B*35:01 is of even stronger association with reduced disease duration in mild and moderate COVID-19 than age or any other potential risk factor assessed. Prospective studies in larger patient populations also including novel SARS-CoV-2 variants will be required to assess the impact of HLA genetics on the capacity of mounting protective vaccination responses in the future.
34548411 | High-dimensional profiling reveals phenotypic heterogeneity and disease-specific alterations of granulocytes in COVID-19. Since the outset of the COVID-19 pandemic, increasing evidence suggests that the innate immune responses play an important role in the disease development. A dysregulated inflammatory state has been proposed as a key driver of clinical complications in COVID-19, with a potential detrimental role of granulocytes. However, a comprehensive phenotypic description of circulating granulocytes in severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2)-infected patients is lacking. In this study, we used high-dimensional flow cytometry for granulocyte immunophenotyping in peripheral blood collected from COVID-19 patients during acute and convalescent phases. Severe COVID-19 was associated with increased levels of both mature and immature neutrophils, and decreased counts of eosinophils and basophils. Distinct immunotypes were evident in COVID-19 patients, with altered expression of several receptors involved in activation, adhesion, and migration of granulocytes (e.g., CD62L, CD11a/b, CD69, CD63, CXCR4). Paired sampling revealed recovery and phenotypic restoration of the granulocytic signature in the convalescent phase. The identified granulocyte immunotypes correlated with distinct sets of soluble inflammatory markers, supporting pathophysiologic relevance. Furthermore, clinical features, including multiorgan dysfunction and respiratory function, could be predicted using combined laboratory measurements and immunophenotyping. This study provides a comprehensive granulocyte characterization in COVID-19 and reveals specific immunotypes with potential predictive value for key clinical features associated with COVID-19.
34628442 | Clinical evidence for a lack of cross-resistance between temsavir and ibalizumab or maraviroc. BACKGROUND: Temsavir (TMR), the active agent of the gp120-directed attachment inhibitor fostemsavir (FTR), the CD4-directed attachment inhibitor ibalizumab (IBA), and the CCR5 antagonist maraviroc (MVC) are antiretroviral agents that target steps in HIV-1 viral entry. Although mechanisms of inhibition of the three agents are different, it is important to understand whether there is potential for cross-resistance between these agents, as all involve interactions with gp120. METHODS: Envelopes derived from plasma samples from participants in the BRIGHTE study who experienced protocol-derived virologic failure (PDVF) and were co-dosed with FTR and either IBA or MVC were analyzed for susceptibility to the agents. Also, CCR5-tropic MVC-resistant envelopes from the MOTIVATE trials were regenerated and studies were performed to understand whether susceptibility to multiple agents were linked. RESULTS: The cloned envelopes exhibited reduced susceptibility to TMR and resistance to the co-dosed agent. At PDVF, emergent or preexisting amino acid substitutions were present at TMR positions of interest. When amino acid substitutions at these positions were reverted to the consensus sequence, full susceptibility to TMR was restored without effecting resistance to the co-dosed agent. In addition, five envelopes from MOTIVATE were regenerated and exhibited R5-tropic-MVC-resistance. Only one exhibited reduced susceptibility to TMR and it contained an M426L polymorphism. When reverted to 426M, full sensitivity for TMR was restored, but it remained MVC resistant. CONCLUSION: The data confirm that decreased susceptibility to TMR and resistance to IBA or MVC are not linked and that there is no cross-resistance between either of these two agents and FTR.
34706243 | Adenosine deaminase 2 produced by infiltrative monocytes promotes liver fibrosis in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. Elevated circulating activity of adenosine deaminase 2 (ADA2) is associated with liver fibrosis in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). In the liver of NAFLD patients, ADA2-positive portal macrophages are significantly associated with the degree of liver fibrosis. These liver macrophages are CD14- and CD16-positive and co-express chemokine receptors CCR2, CCR5, and CXCR3, indicating infiltrative monocyte origin. Human circulatory monocytes release ADA2 upon macrophage differentiation in vitro. When stimulated by recombinant human ADA2 (rhADA2), human monocyte-derived macrophages demonstrate upregulation of pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic genes, including PDGF-B, a key pro-fibrotic cytokine. This PDGF-B upregulation is reproduced by inosine, the enzymatic product of ADA2, but not adenosine, and is abolished by E359N, a loss-of-function mutation in ADA2. Finally, rhADA2 also stimulates PDGF-B production from Kupffer cells in primary human liver spheroids. Together, these data suggest that infiltrative monocytes promote fibrogenesis in NAFLD via ADA2-mediated autocrine/paracrine signaling culminating in enhanced PDGF-B production.
34719258 | CCR5 Activation Promotes NLRP1-Dependent Neuronal Pyroptosis via CCR5/PKA/CREB Pathway After Intracerebral Hemorrhage. BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Neuronal pyroptosis is a type of regulated cell death triggered by proinflammatory signals. CCR5 (C-C chemokine receptor 5)-mediated inflammation is involved in the pathology of various neurological diseases. This study investigated the impact of CCR5 activation on neuronal pyroptosis and the underlying mechanism involving cAMP-dependent PKA (protein kinase A)/CREB (cAMP response element binding)/NLRP1 (nucleotide-binding domain leucine-rich repeat pyrin domain containing 1) pathway after experimental intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). METHODS: A total of 194 adult male CD1 mice were used. ICH was induced by autologous whole blood injection. Maraviroc (MVC)-a selective antagonist of CCR5-was administered intranasally 1 hour after ICH. To elucidate the underlying mechanism, a specific CREB inhibitor, 666-15, was administered intracerebroventricularly before MVC administration in ICH mice. In a set of naive mice, rCCL5 (recombinant chemokine ligand 5) and selective PKA activator, 8-Bromo-cAMP, were administered intracerebroventricularly. Short- and long-term neurobehavioral assessments, Western blot, Fluoro-Jade C, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL), and immunofluorescence staining were performed. RESULTS: The brain expression of CCL5 (chemokine ligand 5), CCR5, PKA-Calpha (protein kinase A-Calpha), p-CREB (phospho-cAMP response element binding), and NLRP1 was increased, peaking at 24 hours after ICH. CCR5 was expressed on neurons, microglia, and astrocytes. MVC improved the short- and long-term neurobehavioral deficits and decreased neuronal pyroptosis in ipsilateral brain tissues at 24 hours after ICH, which were accompanied by increased PKA-Calpha and p-CREB expression, and decreased expression of NLRP1, ASC (apoptosis-associated speck-like protein containing a CARD), C-caspase-1, GSDMD (gasdermin D), and IL (interleukin)-1beta/IL-18. Such effects of MVC were abolished by 666-15. At 24 hours after injection in naive mice, rCCL5 induced neurological deficits, decreased PKA-Calpha and p-CREB expression in the brain, and upregulated NLRP1, ASC, C-caspase-1, N-GSDMD, and IL-1beta/IL-18 expression. Those effects of rCCL5 were reversed by 8-Bromo-cAMP. CONCLUSIONS: CCR5 activation promoted neuronal pyroptosis and neurological deficits after ICH in mice, partially through the CCR5/PKA/CREB/NLRP1 signaling pathway. CCR5 inhibition with MVC may provide a promising therapeutic approach in managing patients with ICH.
34944610 | COVID-19 Specific Immune Markers Revealed by Single Cell Phenotypic Profiling. COVID-19 is a viral infection, caused by the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) and characterized by a complex inflammatory process and clinical immunophenotypes. Nowadays, several alterations of immune response within the respiratory tracts as well as at the level of the peripheral blood have been well documented. Nonetheless, their effects on COVID-19-related cell heterogeneity and disease progression are less defined. Here, we performed a single-cell RNA sequencing of about 400 transcripts relevant to immune cell function including surface markers, in mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from the peripheral blood of 50 subjects, infected with SARS-CoV-2 at the diagnosis and 27 healthy blood donors as control. We found that patients with COVID-19 exhibited an increase in COVID-specific surface markers in different subsets of immune cell composition. Interestingly, the expression of cell receptors, such as IFNGR1 and CXCR4, was reduced in response to the viral infection and associated with the inhibition of the related signaling pathways and immune functions. These results highlight novel immunoreceptors, selectively expressed in COVID-19 patients, which affect the immune functionality and are correlated with clinical outcomes.
35002537 | Identification of Differentially Expressed Genes in COVID-19 and Integrated Bioinformatics Analysis of Signaling Pathways. Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is acutely infectious pneumonia. Currently, the specific causes and treatment targets of COVID-19 are still unclear. Herein, comprehensive bioinformatics methods were employed to analyze the hub genes in COVID-19 and tried to reveal its potential mechanisms. First of all, 34 groups of COVID-19 lung tissues and 17 other diseases' lung tissues were selected from the GSE151764 gene expression profile for research. According to the analysis of the DEGs (differentially expressed genes) in the samples using the limma software package, 84 upregulated DEGs and 46 downregulated DEGs were obtained. Later, by the Database for Annotation, Visualization, and Integrated Discovery (DAVID), they were enriched in the Gene Ontology (GO) terms and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathways. It was found that the upregulated DEGs were enriched in the type I interferon signaling pathway, AGE-RAGE signaling pathway in diabetic complications, coronavirus disease, etc. Downregulated DEGs were in cellular response to cytokine stimulus, IL-17 signaling pathway, FoxO signaling pathway, etc. Then, based on GSEA, the enrichment of the gene set in the sample was analyzed in the GO terms, and the gene set was enriched in the positive regulation of myeloid leukocyte cytokine production involved in immune response, programmed necrotic cell death, translesion synthesis, necroptotic process, and condensed nuclear chromosome. Finally, with the help of STRING tools, the PPI (protein-protein interaction) network diagrams of DEGs were constructed. With degree >=13 as the cutoff degree, 3 upregulated hub genes (ISG15, FN1, and HLA-G) and 4 downregulated hub genes (FOXP3, CXCR4, MMP9, and CD69) were screened out for high degree. All these findings will help us to understand the potential molecular mechanisms of COVID-19, which is also of great significance for its diagnosis and prevention.
35042962 | Two short low complexity regions (LCRs) are hallmark sequences of the Delta SARS-CoV-2 variant spike protein. Low complexity regions (LCRs) are protein sequences formed by a set of compositionally biased residues. LCRs are extremely abundant in cellular proteins and have also been reported in viruses, where they may partake in evasion of the host immune system. Analyses of 28,231 SARS-CoV-2 whole proteomes and of 261,051 spike protein sequences revealed the presence of four extremely conserved LCRs in the spike protein of several SARS-CoV-2 variants. With the exception of Iota, where it is absent, the Spike LCR-1 is present in the signal peptide of 80.57% of the Delta variant sequences, and in other variants of concern and interest. The Spike LCR-2 is highly prevalent (79.87%) in Iota. Two distinctive LCRs are present in the Delta spike protein. The Delta Spike LCR-3 is present in 99.19% of the analyzed sequences, and the Delta Spike LCR-4 in 98.3% of the same set of proteins. These two LCRs are located in the furin cleavage site and HR1 domain, respectively, and may be considered hallmark traits of the Delta variant. The presence of the medically-important point mutations P681R and D950N in these LCRs, combined with the ubiquity of these regions in the highly contagious Delta variant opens the possibility that they may play a role in its rapid spread.
35318325 | Integrative transcriptomic, evolutionary, and causal inference framework for region-level analysis: Application to COVID-19. We developed an integrative transcriptomic, evolutionary, and causal inference framework for a deep region-level analysis, which integrates several published approaches and a new summary-statistics-based methodology. To illustrate the framework, we applied it to understanding the host genetics of COVID-19 severity. We identified putative causal genes, including SLC6A20, CXCR6, CCR9, and CCR5 in the locus on 3p21.31, quantifying their effect on mediating expression and on severe COVID-19. We confirmed that individuals who carry the introgressed archaic segment in the locus have a substantially higher risk of developing the severe disease phenotype, estimating its contribution to expression-mediated heritability using a new summary-statistics-based approach we developed here. Through a large-scale phenome-wide scan for the genes in the locus, several potential complications, including inflammatory, immunity, olfactory, and gustatory traits, were identified. Notably, the introgressed segment showed a much higher concentration of expression-mediated causal effect on severity (0.9-11.5 times) than the entire locus, explaining, on average, 15.7% of the causal effect. The region-level framework (implemented in publicly available software, SEGMENT-SCAN) has important implications for the elucidation of molecular mechanisms of disease and the rational design of potentially novel therapeutics.
35444316 | Evaluating ribosomal frameshifting in CCR5 mRNA decoding. 
35452519 | Reduced Cell Surface Levels of C-C Chemokine Receptor 5 and Immunosuppression in Long Coronavirus Disease 2019 Syndrome. In an exploratory trial treating \long COVID\ with the CCR5-binding antibody leronlimab, we observed significantly increased blood cell surface CCR5 in treated symptomatic responders but not in nonresponders or placebo-treated participants. These findings suggest an unexpected mechanism of abnormal immune downmodulation in some persons that is normalized by leronlimab. Clinical Trials Registration. NCT04678830.
35714803 | The association of COVID-19 severity and susceptibility and genetic risk factors: A systematic review of the literature. BACKGROUND: COVID-19 is associated with several risk factors such as distinct ethnicities (genetic ancestry), races, sexes, age, pre-existing comorbidities, smoking, and genetics. The authors aim to evaluate the correlation between variability in the host genetics and the severity and susceptibility towards COVID-19 in this study. METHODS: Following the PRISMA guidelines, we retrieved all the relevant articles published until September 15, 2021, from two online databases: PubMed and Scopus. FINDINGS: High-risk HLA haplotypes, higher expression of ACE polymorphisms, and several genes of cellular proteases such as TMPRSS2, FURIN, TLL-1 increase the risk of susceptibility and severity of COVID-19. In addition, upregulation of several genes encoding for both innate and acquired immune systems proteins, mainly CCR5, IFNs, TLR, DPPs, and TNF, positively correlate with COVID-19 severity. However, reduced expression or polymorphisms in genes affecting TLR and IFNlambda increase COVID-19 severity. CONCLUSION: Higher expression, polymorphisms, mutations, and deletions of several genes are linked with the susceptibility, severity, and clinical outcomes of COVID-19. Early treatment and vaccination of individuals with genetic predisposition could help minimize the severity and mortality associated with COVID-19.
35743140 | Combined Therapy with a CCR2/CCR5 Antagonist and FGF21 Analogue Synergizes in Ameliorating Steatohepatitis and Fibrosis. (1) Background: With new potential drug targets emerging, combination therapies appear attractive to treat non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and fibrosis. Chemokine receptor CCR2/5 antagonists can improve fibrosis by reducing monocyte infiltration and altering hepatic macrophage subsets. Fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21) may improve NASH by modulating lipid and glucose metabolism. We compared effects of single drug to combination treatment as therapeutic strategies against NASH. (2) Methods: We analyzed serum samples and liver biopsies from 85 nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) patients. A CCR2/5 inhibitor (BMS-687681-02-020) and a pegylated FGF21 agonist (BMS-986171) were tested in male C57BL/6J mice subjected to dietary models of NASH and fibrosis (choline-deficient, L-amino acid-defined, high-fat diet (CDAHFD) up to 12 weeks; short- (2w) or long-term (6w) treatment). (3) Results: In NAFLD patients, chemokine CCL2 and FGF21 serum levels correlated with inflammatory serum markers, only CCL2 was significantly associated with advanced liver fibrosis. In rodent NASH, CCR2/5 inhibition significantly reduced circulating Ly6C+ monocytes and hepatic monocyte-derived macrophages, alongside reduced hepatic inflammation and fibrosis. FGF21 agonism decreased body weight, liver triglycerides and histological NASH activity. Combination treatment reflected aspects of both compounds upon short- and long-term application, thereby amplifying beneficial effects on all aspects of steatohepatitis and fibrosis. (4) Conclusions: CCR2/5 inhibition blocks hepatic infiltration of inflammatory monocytes, FGF21 agonism improves obesity-related metabolic disorders. Combined therapy ameliorates steatohepatitis and fibrosis more potently than single drug treatment in rodent NASH, corroborating the therapeutic potential of combining these two approaches in NASH patients.
35749425 | Rationale of using the dual chemokine receptor CCR2/CCR5 inhibitor cenicriviroc for the treatment of COVID-19. Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19), caused by Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), has created a global pandemic infecting over 230 million people and costing millions of lives. Therapies to attenuate severe disease are desperately needed. Cenicriviroc (CVC), a C-C chemokine receptor type 5 (CCR5) and C-C chemokine receptor type 2 (CCR2) antagonist, an agent previously studied in advanced clinical trials for patients with HIV or nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), may have the potential to reduce respiratory and cardiovascular organ failures related to COVID-19. Inhibiting the CCR2 and CCR5 pathways could attenuate or prevent inflammation or fibrosis in both early and late stages of the disease and improve outcomes of COVID-19. Clinical trials using CVC either in addition to standard of care (SoC; e.g., dexamethasone) or in combination with other investigational agents in patients with COVID-19 are currently ongoing. These trials intend to leverage the anti-inflammatory actions of CVC for ameliorating the clinical course of COVID-19 and prevent complications. This article reviews the literature surrounding the CCR2 and CCR5 pathways, their proposed role in COVID-19, and the potential role of CVC to improve outcomes.
35751199 | Insights into potential mechanisms of asthma patients with COVID-19: A study based on the gene expression profiling of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid. BACKGROUND: The 2019 novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19), caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), is currently a major challenge threatening the global healthcare system. Respiratory virus infection is the most common cause of asthma attacks, and thus COVID-19 may contribute to an increase in asthma exacerbations. However, the mechanisms of COVID-19/asthma comorbidity remain unclear. METHODS: The \Limma\ package or \DESeq2\ package was used to screen differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Alveolar lavage fluid datasets of COVID-19 and asthma were obtained from the GEO and GSV database. A series of analyses of common host factors for COVID-19 and asthma were conducted, including PPI network construction, module analysis, enrichment analysis, inference of the upstream pathway activity of host factors, tissue-specific analysis and drug candidate prediction. Finally, the key host factors were verified in the GSE152418 and GSE164805 datasets. RESULTS: 192 overlapping host factors were obtained by analyzing the intersection of asthma and COVID-19. FN1, UBA52, EEF1A1, ITGB1, XPO1, NPM1, EGR1, EIF4E, SRSF1, CCR5, PXN, IRF8 and DDX5 as host factors were tightly connected in the PPI network. Module analysis identified five modules with different biological functions and pathways. According to the degree values ranking in the PPI network, EEF1A1, EGR1, UBA52, DDX5 and IRF8 were considered as the key cohost factors for COVID-19 and asthma. The H2O2, VEGF, IL-1 and Wnt signaling pathways had the strongest activities in the upstream pathways. Tissue-specific enrichment analysis revealed the different expression levels of the five critical host factors. LY294002, wortmannin, PD98059 and heparin might have great potential to evolve into therapeutic drugs for COVID-19 and asthma comorbidity. Finally, the validation dataset confirmed that the expression of five key host factors were statistically significant among COVID-19 groups with different severity and healthy control subjects. CONCLUSIONS: This study constructed a network of common host factors between asthma and COVID-19 and predicted several drugs with therapeutic potential. Therefore, this study is likely to provide a reference for the management and treatment for COVID-19/asthma comorbidity.
35754341 | Primary dysmenorrhoea in adolescents and young women: A twin family study of maternal transmission, genetic influence and associations. AIMS: The extent to which maternal transmission of primary dysmenorrhoea is genetically determined in adolescents and young women has yet to be determined. We aimed to assess heritability and associations relevant to primary pain syndromes using a twin family study. METHODS: Participants were young menstruating female twins, and their oldest sisters and mothers, whose families were registered with Twins Research Australia and previously participated in a twin family study of primary paediatric pain disorders. Questionnaire packs were mailed, assessing current maximum and average menstrual pain intensity, current pain interference with activities and retrospective dysmenorrhea secondary symptoms. RESULTS: The sample comprised 206 twin individuals (57 monozygous (MZ) and 46 dizygous (DZ) pairs) aged 10-22 years, eldest siblings (n = 38) aged 13-28 years and mothers (n = 101) aged 32-61 years. The estimated regression coefficient of the relationship between mother-daughter and twin-sibling dyads indicated significant associations for the measures of dysmenorrhea and supported heritability. Adjusted for age, the within twin-pair correlation for MZ twins was generally more than twice that of DZ twins. Heritability estimates were maximal pain intensity 0.67 (P = 3.8 x 10-11 ), average pain intensity 0.63 (P = 3.7 x 10-10 ), pain interference 0.57 (P = 1.8 x 10-8 ) and retrospective symptoms 0.57 (P = 1.8 x 10-8 ). Twin individuals with a lifetime (three-month) history of iron deficiency and those with painless restless legs syndrome (RLS) were significantly more likely to have more intense pain associated with menstruation. CONCLUSION: Primary dysmenorrhea in adolescents and young women was shown to be relatively strongly genetically influenced and associated especially with a history of iron deficiency and painless RLS which have potential therapeutic implications.
35763308 | Effect of Chemokine Gene Variants on Covid-19 Disease Severity. Patients immune phenotype/genotype data may be useful to understand the molecular mechanisms involved in SARS-CoV-2 infection and can contribute to the identify the different levels of disease severity. The roles of chemokines have been reported in the coronavirus-related diseases SARS and MERS and they may likewise play a critical role in the development of the symptoms of COVID-19 disease. We analyzed the association of the MCP-1-A2518 G, SDF-1-3'A, CCR5-delta32, CCR5-A55029 G, CXCR4-C138T and CCR2-V64I gene polymorphisms with COVID-19 severity to further unveil the immunological pathways leading to disease severity and death. Polymerase chain reaction(PCR)/Sanger sequencing analysis was performed for detection of the variations in 60 asymptomatic and 119 severe COVID-19 patients. In our study, we found that the frequencies of MCP-1 of GA genotype and G allele carriers were significantly higher in severe COVID-19 patients than the asymptomatic COVID-19 patients (p < .0001 and p: .005, respectively). However, no significant association was found for any of the other polymorphisms with the severity of COVID-19. Our findings suggest that there is a positive association between MCP-1-A2518 G gene variants with the severity of COVID-19. However, larger studies in different population which will focus on gene expression levels will help us to understand the capability of the mechanism role.
35778288 | Factors associated with weak positive SARS-CoV-2 diagnosis by reverse transcriptase-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR). During the COVID-19 pandemic, the reverse transcriptase-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) assay has been the primary method of diagnosis of SARS-CoV-2 infection. However, RT-qPCR assay interpretation can be ambiguous with no universal absolute cut-off value to determine sample positivity, which particularly complicates the analysis of samples with high Ct values, or weak positives. Therefore, we sought to analyse factors associated with weak positive SARS-CoV-2 diagnosis. We analysed sample data associated with all positive SARS-CoV-2 RT-qPCR diagnostic tests performed by the Victorian Infectious Diseases Reference Laboratory (VIDRL) in Melbourne, Australia, during the Victorian first wave (22 January 2020-30 May 2020). A subset of samples was screened for the presence of host DNA and RNA using qPCR assays for CCR5 and 18S, respectively. Assays targeting the viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) had higher Ct values than assays targeting the viral N and E genes. Weak positives were not associated with the age or sex of individuals' samples nor with reduced levels of host DNA and RNA. We observed a relationship between Ct value and time post-SARS-CoV-2 diagnosis. High Ct value or weak positive SARS-CoV-2 was not associated with any particular bias including poor biological sampling.
35953728 | CXCR4-targeted molecular imaging after severe SARS-Cov-2 infection. 
36012436 | Allelic Variations in the Human Genes TMPRSS2 and CCR5, and the Resistance to Viral Infection by SARS-CoV-2. During the first wave of COVID-19 infection in Italy, the number of cases and the mortality rates were among the highest compared to the rest of Europe and the world. Several studies demonstrated a severe clinical course of COVID-19 associated with old age, comorbidities, and male gender. However, there are cases of virus infection resistance in subjects living in close contact with infected subjects. Thus, to explain the predisposition to virus infection and to COVID-19 disease progression, we must consider, in addition to the genetic variability of the virus and other environmental or comorbidity conditions, the allelic variants of specific human genes, directly or indirectly related to the life cycle of the virus. Here, we analyzed three human genetic polymorphisms belonging to the TMPRSS2 and CCR5 genes in a sample population from Sicily (Italy) to investigate possible correlations with the resistance to viral infection and/or to COVID-19 disease progression as recently described in other human populations. Our results did not show any correlations of the rs35074065, rs12329760, and rs333 polymorphisms with SARS-CoV-2 infection or with COVID-19 disease severity. Further studies on other human genetic polymorphisms should be performed to identify the major human determinants of SARS-CoV-2 viral resistance.
36051697 | COVID-19 in pediatrics: Genetic susceptibility. The uptick in SARS-CoV-2 infection has resulted in a worldwide COVID-19 pandemic, which has created troublesome health and economic problems. We performed case-control meta-analyses in both African and European ethnicity COVID-19 disease cases based on laboratory test and phenotypic criteria. The cases had laboratory-confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection. We uniquely investigated COVID infection genetics in a pediatric population. Our cohort has a large African ancestry component, also unique to our study. We tested for genetic variant association in 498 cases vs. 1,533 controls of African ancestry and 271 cases vs. 855 controls of European ancestry. We acknowledge that the sample size is relatively small, owing to the low prevalence of COVID infection among pediatric individuals. COVID-19 cases averaged 13 years of age. Pediatric genetic studies enhance the ability to detect genetic associations with a limited possible environment impact. Our findings support the notion that some genetic variants, most notably at the SEMA6D, FMN1, ACTN1, PDS5B, NFIA, ADGRL3, MMP27, TENM3, SPRY4, MNS1, and RSU1 loci, play a role in COVID-19 infection susceptibility. The pediatric cohort also shows nominal replication of previously reported adult study results: CCR9, CXCR6, FYCO1, LZTFL1, TDGF1, CCR1, CCR2, CCR3, CCR5, MAPT-AS1, and IFNAR2 gene variants. Reviewing the biological roles of genes implicated here, NFIA looks to be the most interesting as it binds to a palindromic sequence observed in both viral and cellular promoters and in the adenovirus type 2 origin of replication.
36146874 | Autopsy Study Defines Composition and Dynamics of the HIV-1 Reservoir after Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation with CCR5Delta32/Delta32 Donor Cells. Allo-HSCT with CCR5Delta32/Delta32 donor cells is the only curative HIV-1 intervention. We investigated the impact of allo-HSCT on the viral reservoir in PBMCs and post-mortem tissue in two patients. IciS-05 and IciS-11 both received a CCR5Delta32/Delta32 allo-HSCT. Before allo-HSCT, ultrasensitive HIV-1 RNA quantification; HIV-1-DNA quantification; co-receptor tropism analysis; deep-sequencing and viral characterization in PBMCs and bone marrow; and post-allo-HSCT, ultrasensitive RNA and HIV-1-DNA quantification were performed. Proviral quantification, deep sequencing, and viral characterization were done in post-mortem tissue samples. Both patients harbored subtype B CCR5-tropic HIV-1 as determined genotypically and functionally by virus culture. Pre-allo-HSCT, HIV-1-DNA could be detected in both patients in bone marrow, PBMCs, and T-cell subsets. Chimerism correlated with detectable HIV-1-DNA LTR copies in cells and tissues. Post-mortem analysis of IciS-05 revealed proviral DNA in all tissue biopsies, but not in PBMCs. In patient IciS-11, who was transplanted twice, no HIV-1-DNA could be detected in PBMCs at the time of death, whereas HIV-1-DNA was detectable in the lymph node. In conclusion, shortly after CCR5Delta32/Delta32, allo-HSCT HIV-1-DNA became undetectable in PBMCs. However, HIV-1-DNA variants identical to those present before transplantation persisted in post-mortem-obtained tissues, indicating that these tissues play an important role as viral reservoirs.
36216889 | The contribution of functional HNF1A variants and polygenic susceptibility to risk of type 2 diabetes in ancestrally diverse populations. AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: We examined the contribution of rare HNF1A variants to type 2 diabetes risk and age of diagnosis, and the extent to which their impact is affected by overall genetic susceptibility, across three ancestry groups. METHODS: Using exome sequencing data of 160,615 individuals of the UK Biobank and 18,797 individuals of the BioMe Biobank, we identified 746 carriers of rare functional HNF1A variants (minor allele frequency <=1%), of which 507 carry variants in the functional domains. We calculated polygenic risk scores (PRSs) based on genome-wide association study summary statistics for type 2 diabetes, and examined the association of HNF1A variants and PRS with risk of type 2 diabetes and age of diagnosis. We also tested whether the PRS affects the association between HNF1A variants and type 2 diabetes risk by including an interaction term. RESULTS: Rare HNF1A variants that are predicted to impair protein function are associated with increased risk of type 2 diabetes in individuals of European ancestry (OR 1.46, p=0.049), particularly when the variants are located in the functional domains (OR 1.89, p=0.002). No association was observed for individuals of African ancestry (OR 1.10, p=0.60) or Hispanic-Latino ancestry (OR 1.00, p=1.00). Rare functional HNF1A variants were associated with an earlier age at diagnosis in the Hispanic-Latino population (beta=-5.0 years, p=0.03), and this association was marginally more pronounced for variants in the functional domains (beta=-5.59 years, p=0.03). No associations were observed for other ancestries (African ancestry beta=-2.7 years, p=0.13; European ancestry beta=-3.5 years, p=0.20). A higher PRS was associated with increased odds of type 2 diabetes in all ancestries (OR 1.61-2.11, p<10-5) and an earlier age at diagnosis in individuals of African ancestry (beta=-1.4 years, p=3.7 x 10-6) and Hispanic-Latino ancestry (beta=-2.4 years, p<2 x 10-16). Furthermore, a higher PRS exacerbated the effect of the functional HNF1A variants on type 2 diabetes in the European ancestry population (pinteraction=0.037). CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATION: We show that rare functional HNF1A variants, in particular those located in the functional domains, increase the risk of type 2 diabetes, at least among individuals of European ancestry. Their effect is even more pronounced in individuals with a high polygenic susceptibility. Our analyses highlight the importance of the location of functional variants within a gene and an individual's overall polygenic susceptibility, and emphasise the need for more genetic data in non-European populations.
36252122 | Specific Loss of ABCA1 (ATP-Binding Cassette Transporter A1) Suppresses TCR (T-Cell Receptor) Signaling and Provides Protection Against Atherosclerosis. BACKGROUND: ABCA1 (ATP-binding cassette transporter A1) mediates cholesterol efflux to apo AI to maintain cellular cholesterol homeostasis. The current study aims to investigate whether T-cell-specific deletion of ABCA1 modulates the phenotype/function of T cells and the development of atherosclerosis. METHODS: Mice with T-cell-specific deletion of ABCA1 on low-density lipoprotein receptor knockout (Ldlr-/-) background (Abca1CD4-/CD4-Ldlr-/-) were generated by multiple steps of (cross)-breedings among Abca1flox/flox, CD4-Cre, and Ldlr-/- mice. RESULTS: Deletions of ABCA1 greatly suppressed cholesterol efflux to apo AI but slightly reduced membrane lipid rafts on T cells probably due to the upregulation of ABCG1. Moreover, ABCA1 deficiency impaired TCR (T-cell receptor) signaling and inhibited the survival and proliferation of T cells as well as the formation of effector memory T cells. Despite the comparable levels of plasma total cholesterol after Western-type diet feeding, Abca1CD4-/CD4-Ldlr-/- mice showed significantly attenuated arterial accumulations of T cells and smaller atherosclerotic lesions than Abca1+/+Ldlr-/-controls, which were associated with reduced surface CCR5 (CC motif chemokine receptor 5) and CXCR3 (CXC motif chemokine receptor 3), decreased antiapoptotic Bcl-2 (B-cell lymphoma 2) and Bcl-xL (B-cell lymphoma extra-large), and hampered abilities to produce IL (interleukin)-2 and IFN (interferon)-gamma by ABCA1-deficient T cells. CONCLUSIONS: ABCA1 is essential for T-cell cholesterol homeostasis. Deletion of ABCA1 in T cells impairs TCR signaling, suppresses the survival, proliferation, differentiation, and function of T cells, thereby providing atheroprotection in vivo.
36411478 | Prognostic markers for the clinical course in the blood of patients with SARS-CoV-2 infection. BACKGROUND: The presentation of peptides and the subsequent immune response depend on the MHC characteristics and influence the specificity of the immune response. Several studies have found an association between HLA variants and differential COVID-19 outcomes and have shown that HLA genotypes are associated with differential immune responses against SARS-CoV-2, particularly in severely ill patients. Information, whether HLA haplotypes are associated with the severity or length of the disease in moderately diseased individuals is absent. METHODS: Next-generation sequencing-based HLA typing was performed in 303 female and 231 male non-hospitalized North Rhine Westphalian patients infected with SARS-CoV2 during the first and second wave. For HLA-Class I, we obtained results from 528 patients, and for HLA-Class II from 531. In those patients, who became ill between March 2020 and January 2021, the 22 most common HLA-Class I (HLA-A, -B, -C) or HLA-Class II (HLA -DRB1/3/4, -DQA1, -DQB1) haplotypes were determined. The identified HLA haplotypes as well as the presence of a CCR5Delta32 mutation and number of O and A blood group alleles were associated to disease severity and duration of the disease. RESULTS: The influence of the HLA haplotypes on disease severity and duration was more pronounced than the influence of age, sex, or ABO blood group. These associations were sex dependent. The presence of mutated CCR5 resulted in a longer recovery period in males. CONCLUSION: The existence of certain HLA haplotypes is associated with more severe disease.
36426967 | Inflammatory Chemokine Receptors Support Inflammatory Macrophage and Dendritic Cell Maturation. Dendritic cells form clusters in vivo, but the mechanism behind this has not been determined. In this article, we demonstrate that monocytes from mice deficient in the chemokine receptors CCR1, CCR2, CCR3, and CCR5 display reduced clustering in vitro, which is associated with impaired dendritic cell and macrophage differentiation. We further show that the differentiating cells themselves produce ligands for these receptors that function, in a redundant manner, to regulate cell clustering. Deletion of, or pharmacological blockade of, more than one of these receptors is required to impair clustering and differentiation. Our data show that chemokines and their receptors support clustering by increasing expression of, and activating, cell-surface integrins, which are associated with cell-cell interactions and, in the context of monocyte differentiation, with reduced expression of Foxp1, a known transcriptional suppressor of monocyte differentiation. Our data therefore provide a mechanism whereby chemokines and their receptors typically found in inflammatory environments can interact to promote murine monocyte differentiation to macrophages and dendritic cells.
36572146 | Cenicriviroc for the treatment of COVID-19: first interim results of a randomised, placebo-controlled, investigator-initiated, double-blind phase II trial. OBJECTIVES: C-C-chemokine receptors (CCRs) are expressed on a variety of immune cells and play an important role in many immune processes, particularly leukocyte migration. Comprehensive preclinical research demonstrated CCR2/CCR5-dependent pathways as pivotal for the pathophysiology of severe COVID-19. Here we report human data on use of a chemokine receptor inhibitor in patients with COVID-19. METHODS: Interim results of a 2:1 randomised, placebo-controlled, investigator-initiated trial on the CCR2/CCR5-inhibitor Cenicriviroc (CVC) 150 mg BID orally for 28 d in hospitalised patients with moderate to severe COVID-19 are reported. The primary endpoint is the subject's responder status defined by achieving grade 1 or 2 on the 7-point ordinal scale of clinical improvement on day 15. RESULTS: Of the 30 patients randomised, 18 were assigned to receive CVC and 12 to placebo. Efficient CCR2- and CCR5 inhibition was demonstrated through CCL2 and CCL4 elevation in CVC-treated patients (485% and 80% increase on day 3 compared to the baseline, respectively). In the modified intention-to-treat population, 82.4% of patients (14/17) in the CVC group met the primary endpoint, as did 91.7% (11/12) in the placebo group (OR = 0.5, 95% CI = 0.04-3.41). One patient treated with CVC died of progressive acute respiratory distress syndrome, and the remaining had a favourable outcome. Overall, treatment with CVC was well tolerated, with most adverse events being grade I or II and resolving spontaneously. CONCLUSIONS: Our interim analysis provides proof-of-concept data on CVC for COVID-19 patients as an intervention to inhibit CCR2/CCR5. Further studies are warranted to assess its clinical efficacy.
36602861 | Slow progression of pediatric HIV associates with early CD8+ T cell PD-1 expression and a stem-like phenotype. HIV nonprogression despite persistent viremia is rare among adults who are naive to antiretroviral therapy (ART) but relatively common among ART-naive children. Previous studies indicate that ART-naive pediatric slow progressors (PSPs) adopt immune evasion strategies similar to those described in natural hosts of SIV. However, the mechanisms underlying this immunophenotype are not well understood. In a cohort of early-treated infants who underwent analytical treatment interruption (ATI) after 12 months of ART, expression of PD-1 on CD8+ T cells immediately before ATI was the main predictor of slow progression during ATI. PD-1+CD8+ T cell frequency was also negatively correlated with CCR5 and HLA-DR expression on CD4+ T cells and predicted stronger HIV-specific T lymphocyte responses. In the CD8+ T cell compartment of PSPs, we identified an enrichment of stem-like TCF-1+PD-1+ memory cells, whereas pediatric progressors and viremic adults had a terminally exhausted PD-1+CD39+ population. TCF-1+PD-1+ expression on CD8+ T cells was associated with higher proliferative activity and stronger Gag-specific effector functionality. These data prompted the hypothesis that the proliferative burst potential of stem-like HIV-specific cytotoxic cells could be exploited in therapeutic strategies to boost the antiviral response and facilitate remission in infants who received early ART with a preserved and nonexhausted T cell compartment.
36625336 | SARS-CoV-2-infection in the setting of autotransplants for multiple sclerosis. The severe adult respiratory syndrome virus type 2 (SARS-CoV-2) related acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) has a strong immunological and inflammatory component; accordingly investigators are employing monoclonal antibodies to ameliorate the virus-induced cytokine storm such as antibodies against interleukin 6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factors alpha (TNF-alpha) and CC chemokine receptor 5 (CCR5) (1). Cyclophosphamide (Cy) has proven its role in various settings including autoimmune diseases, and in the post-haploidentical stem cell transplant setting; Cy depletes cytotoxic and effector T cell populations while relatively sparing the regulatory T cells (Tregs) and could tip the balance away from the overtly pro-inflammatory setting (1). We present here the cases of three persons who were infected by the SARS-CoV-2 virus during the Cy-induced pancytopenia of an autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT), aimed to down-regulate the immune response in multiple sclerosis (MS) (2). The surprisingly benign course of the COVID-19 in the three cases suggest that the Cy could have had a role in abrogating the inflammatory response in these persons.
36740883 | OMIP-090: A 20-parameter flow cytometry panel for rapid analysis of cell diversity and homing capacity in human conventional and regulatory T cells. The panel was developed and optimized for monitoring changes in homing capacity and functional diversity of human CD4+ conventional and regulatory T cell subsets. The analysis was based on expression of only surface markers in freshly isolated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) to reduce at minimum any alteration due to permeabilization or freezing/thawing procedures. We included markers to assess the distribution of naive and memory populations based on the expression of CD45RA, CCR7, CD25, CD28 and CD95 in both conventional and regulatory T cells. The identification of major functional subsets was performed using CCR4, CCR6, CCR10, CXCR3 and CXCR5. Homing capacity of these subsets to skin, airway tract, gut and inflammatory lesions could finally be assessed with the markers CLA, CCR3, CCR5 and integrin beta7. The panel was tested on freshly isolated PBMCs from healthy donors and patients with allergic rhinitis or autoimmune disorders.
36758207 | Spatial and molecular profiling of the mononuclear phagocyte network in Classic Hodgkin lymphoma. Classic Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL) has a rich immune infiltrate, which is an intrinsic component of the neoplastic process. Malignant Hodgkin Reed-Sternberg cells (HRSC) create an immunosuppressive microenvironment by the expression of regulatory molecules, preventing T-cell activation. It has also been demonstrated that mononuclear phagocytes (MNPs) in the vicinity of HRSC express similar regulatory mechanisms in parallel, and their presence in tissue is associated with inferior patient outcomes. MNPs in cHL have hitherto been identified with a small number of canonical markers and are usually described as 'tumor-associated macrophages'. The organization of MNP networks and interactions with HRSC remains unexplored at high resolution. Here, we defined the global immune cell composition of cHL and non-lymphoma lymph nodes, integrating data across single-cell RNA sequencing, spatial transcriptomics, and multiplexed immunofluorescence. We observed that MNPs comprise multiple subsets of monocytes, macrophages and dendritic cells (DCs). Classical monocytes, macrophages and conventional DC2 were enriched in the vicinity of HRSC, but plasmacytoid DCs and activated DCs were excluded. Unexpectedly, cDCs and monocytes expressed immunoregulatory checkpoints PD-L1, TIM-3, and the tryptophan-catabolizing protein IDO, at the same level as macrophages. Expression of these molecules increased with age. We also found that classical monocytes are important signaling hubs, potentially controlling the retention of cDC2 and ThExh via CCR1-, CCR4-, CCR5-, and CXCR3-dependent signaling. Enrichment of the cDC2-monocyte-macrophage network in diagnostic biopsies is associated with early treatment failure. These results reveal unanticipated complexity and spatial polarization within the MNP compartment, further demonstrating their potential roles in immune evasion by cHL.
36763080 | Regulatory dissection of the severe COVID-19 risk locus introgressed by Neanderthals. Individuals infected with the SARS-CoV-2 virus present with a wide variety of symptoms ranging from asymptomatic to severe and even lethal outcomes. Past research has revealed a genetic haplotype on chromosome 3 that entered the human population via introgression from Neanderthals as the strongest genetic risk factor for the severe response to COVID-19. However, the specific variants along this introgressed haplotype that contribute to this risk and the biological mechanisms that are involved remain unclear. Here, we assess the variants present on the risk haplotype for their likelihood of driving the genetic predisposition to severe COVID-19 outcomes. We do this by first exploring their impact on the regulation of genes involved in COVID-19 infection using a variety of population genetics and functional genomics tools. We then perform a locus-specific massively parallel reporter assay to individually assess the regulatory potential of each allele on the haplotype in a multipotent immune-related cell line. We ultimately reduce the set of over 600 linked genetic variants to identify four introgressed alleles that are strong functional candidates for driving the association between this locus and severe COVID-19. Using reporter assays in the presence/absence of SARS-CoV-2, we find evidence that these variants respond to viral infection. These variants likely drive the locus' impact on severity by modulating the regulation of two critical chemokine receptor genes: CCR1 and CCR5. These alleles are ideal targets for future functional investigations into the interaction between host genomics and COVID-19 outcomes.
36793857 | TCRalphabeta+NK1.1-CD4-CD8- double-negative T cells inhibit central and peripheral inflammation and ameliorate ischemic stroke in mice. Background: Excessive immune activation leads to secondary injury and impedes injured brain recovery after ischemic stroke. However, few effective methods are currently used for equilibrating immune balance. CD3+NK1.1-TCRbeta+CD4-CD8- double-negative T (DNT) cells which do not express NK cell surface markers are unique regulatory cells that maintain homeostasis in several immune-related diseases. However, the therapeutic potential and regulatory mechanism of DNT cells in ischemic stroke are still unknown. Methods: Mouse ischemic stroke is induced by occlusion of the distal branches of the middle cerebral artery (dMCAO). DNT cells were adoptively transferred intravenously into ischemic stroke mice. Neural recovery was evaluated by TTC staining and behavioral analysis. Using immunofluorescence, flow cytometry, and RNA sequencing, the immune regulatory function of DNT cells was investigated at different time points post ischemic stroke. Results: Adoptive transfer of DNT cells significantly reduces infarct volume and improves sensorimotor function after ischemic stroke. DNT cells suppress peripheral Trem1+ myeloid cell differentiation during the acute phase. Furthermore, they infiltrate the ischemic tissue via CCR5 and equilibrate the local immune balance during the subacute phase. During the chronic phase, DNT cells enhance Treg cell recruitment through CCL5, eventually developing an immune homeostatic milieu for neuronal recovery. Conclusions: DNT cell treatment renders the comprehensive anti-inflammatory roles in specific phases of ischemic stroke. Our study suggests that the adoptive transfer of regulatory DNT cells may be a potential cell-based therapy for ischemic stroke.
36803516 | In silico analysis of dietary polyphenols and their gut microbial metabolites suggest inhibition of SARS-CoV-2 infection, replication, and host inflammatory mediators. The outcome of SARS-CoV-2 infection ranges from asymptomatic to severe COVID-19 and death resulting from an exaggerated immune response termed cytokine storm. Epidemiological data have associated consumption of a high-quality plant-based diet with decreased incidence and severity of COVID-19. Dietary polyphenols and their microbial metabolites (MMs) have anti-viral and anti-inflammatory activities. Autodock Vina and Yasara were used in molecular docking and dynamics studies to investigate potential interactions of 7 parent polyphenols (PPs) and 11 MMs with the alpha- and Omicron variants of the SARS-CoV-2 spike glycoprotein (SGP), papain-like pro-tease (PLpro) and 3 chymotrypsin-like protease (3CLpro), as well as host inflammatory mediators including complement component 5a (C5a), C5a receptor (C5aR), and C-C chemokine receptor type 5 (CCR5). PPs and MMs interacted to varying degrees with residues on target viral and host inflammatory proteins showing potential as competitive inhibitors. Based on these in silico findings, PPs and MMs may inhibit SARS-CoV-2 infection, replication, and/or modulate host immunity in the gut or periphery. Such inhibition may explain why people that consume a high-quality plant-based diet have less incidence and severity of COVID-19.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.
36844201 | Case series: Maraviroc and pravastatin as a therapeutic option to treat long COVID/Post-acute sequelae of COVID (PASC). Post-acute sequelae of COVID (PASC), or long COVID, is a multisystem complication of SARS-CoV-2 infection that continues to debilitate millions worldwide thus highlighting the public health importance of identifying effective therapeutics to alleviate this illness. One explanation behind PASC may be attributed to the recent discovery of persistent S1 protein subunit of SARS-CoV-2 in CD16+ monocytes up to 15 months after infection. CD16+ monocytes, which express both CCR5 and fractalkine receptors (CX3CR1), play a role in vascular homeostasis and endothelial immune surveillance. We propose targeting these receptors using the CCR5 antagonist, maraviroc, along with pravastatin, a fractalkine inhibitor, could disrupt the monocytic-endothelial-platelet axis that may be central to the etiology of PASC. Using five validated clinical scales (NYHA, MRC Dyspnea, COMPASS-31, modified Rankin, and Fatigue Severity Score) to measure 18 participants' response to treatment, we observed significant clinical improvement in 6 to 12 weeks on a combination of maraviroc 300 mg per oral twice a day and pravastatin 10 mg per oral daily. Subjective neurological, autonomic, respiratory, cardiac and fatigue symptoms scores all decreased which correlated with statistically significant decreases in vascular markers sCD40L and VEGF. These findings suggest that by interrupting the monocytic-endothelial-platelet axis, maraviroc and pravastatin may restore the immune dysregulation observed in PASC and could be potential therapeutic options. This sets the framework for a future double-blinded, placebo-controlled randomized trial to further investigate the drug efficacy of maraviroc and pravastatin in treating PASC.
37105172 | Microglial-to-neuronal CCR5 signaling regulates autophagy in neurodegeneration. In neurodegenerative diseases, microglia switch to an activated state, which results in excessive secretion of pro-inflammatory factors. Our work aims to investigate how this paracrine signaling affects neuronal function. Here, we show that activated microglia mediate non-cell-autonomous inhibition of neuronal autophagy, a degradative pathway critical for the removal of toxic, aggregate-prone proteins accumulating in neurodegenerative diseases. We found that the microglial-derived CCL-3/-4/-5 bind and activate neuronal CCR5, which in turn promotes mTORC1 activation and disrupts autophagy and aggregate-prone protein clearance. CCR5 and its cognate chemokines are upregulated in the brains of pre-manifesting mouse models for Huntington's disease (HD) and tauopathy, suggesting a pathological role of this microglia-neuronal axis in the early phases of these diseases. CCR5 upregulation is self-sustaining, as CCL5-CCR5 autophagy inhibition impairs CCR5 degradation itself. Finally, pharmacological or genetic inhibition of CCR5 rescues mTORC1 hyperactivation and autophagy dysfunction, which ameliorates HD and tau pathologies in mouse models.
37243169 | CXCR4 Recognition by L- and D-Peptides Containing the Full-Length V3 Loop of HIV-1 gp120. Human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) recognizes one of its principal coreceptors, CXC chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4), on the host cell via the third variable loop (V3 loop) of HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein gp120 during the viral entry process. Here, the mechanism of the molecular recognition of HIV-1 gp120 V3 loop by coreceptor CXCR4 was probed by synthetic peptides containing the full-length V3 loop. The two ends of the V3 loop were covalently linked by a disulfide bond to form a cyclic peptide with better conformational integrity. In addition, to probe the effect of the changed side-chain conformations of the peptide on CXCR4 recognition, an all-D-amino acid analog of the L-V3 loop peptide was generated. Both of these cyclic L- and D-V3 loop peptides displayed comparable binding recognition to the CXCR4 receptor, but not to another chemokine receptor, CCR5, suggesting their selective interactions with CXCR4. Molecular modeling studies revealed the important roles played by many negative-charged Asp and Glu residues on CXCR4 that probably engaged in favorable electrostatic interactions with the positive-charged Arg residues present in these peptides. These results support the notion that the HIV-1 gp120 V3 loop-CXCR4 interface is flexible for ligands of different chiralities, which might be relevant in terms of the ability of the virus to retain coreceptor recognition despite the mutations at the V3 loop.
37264685 | Structural basis of ubiquitin-independent PP1 complex disassembly by p97. The AAA+-ATPase p97 (also called VCP or Cdc48) unfolds proteins and disassembles protein complexes in numerous cellular processes, but how substrate complexes are loaded onto p97 and disassembled is unclear. Here, we present cryo-EM structures of p97 in the process of disassembling a protein phosphatase-1 (PP1) complex by extracting an inhibitory subunit from PP1. We show that PP1 and its partners SDS22 and inhibitor-3 (I3) are loaded tightly onto p97, surprisingly via a direct contact of SDS22 with the p97 N-domain. Loading is assisted by the p37 adapter that bridges two adjacent p97 N-domains underneath the substrate complex. A stretch of I3 is threaded into the central channel of the spiral-shaped p97 hexamer, while other elements of I3 are still attached to PP1. Thus, our data show how p97 arranges a protein complex between the p97 N-domain and central channel, suggesting a hold-and-extract mechanism for p97-mediated disassembly.
37418541 | Impact of ART intensification with CCR5 antagonist maraviroc on HIV-associated neurocognitive impairment. OBJECTIVES: Chemokine receptor CCR5 is the principal co-receptor for entry of M-tropic HIV virus into immune cells. It is expressed in the central nervous system and may contribute to neuro-inflammation. The CCR5 antagonist maraviroc (MVC) has been suggested to improve HIV-associated neurocognitive impairment (NCI). DESIGN: A double-blind, placebo-controlled, 48-week, randomized study of MVC vs placebo in people living with HIV (PLWH) on stable antiretroviral therapy (ART) > 1 year in Hawaii and Puerto Rico with plasma HIV RNA <50 copies/mL and at least mild NCI defined as an overall or domain-specific neuropsychological (NP) Z score < -0.5. METHODS: Study participants were randomized 2:1 to intensification of ART with MVC vs placebo. The primary endpoint was change in global and domain-specific NP Z scores (NPZ) modeled from study entry to week 48. Covariate adjusted treatment comparisons of average changes in cognitive outcome were performed using winsorized NPZ data. Monocyte subset frequencies and chemokine expression as well as plasma biomarker levels were assessed. RESULTS: Forty-nine participants were enrolled with 32 individuals randomized to MVC intensification and 17 to placebo. At baseline, worse NPZ scores were seen in the MVC arm. Comparison of 48-week NPZ change by arm revealed no differences except for a modest improvement in the Learning and Memory domain in the MVC arm which did not survive multiplicity correction. No significant changes between arms were seen in immunologic parameters. CONCLUSIONS: This randomized controlled study found no definitive evidence in favor of MCV intensification among PLWH with mild cognitive difficulties.
37442140 | LYVE-1+ macrophages form a collaborative CCR5-dependent perivascular niche that influences chemotherapy responses in murine breast cancer. Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) are a heterogeneous population of cells that facilitate cancer progression. However, our knowledge of the niches of individual TAM subsets and their development and function remain incomplete. Here, we describe a population of lymphatic vessel endothelial hyaluronan receptor-1 (LYVE-1)-expressing TAMs, which form coordinated multi-cellular \nest\ structures that are heterogeneously distributed proximal to vasculature in tumors of a spontaneous murine model of breast cancer. We demonstrate that LYVE-1+ TAMs develop in response to IL-6, which induces their expression of the immune-suppressive enzyme heme oxygenase-1 and promotes a CCR5-dependent signaling axis, which guides their nest formation. Blocking the development of LYVE-1+ TAMs or their nest structures, using gene-targeted mice, results in an increase in CD8+ T cell recruitment to the tumor and enhanced response to chemotherapy. This study highlights an unappreciated collaboration of a TAM subset to form a coordinated niche linked to immune exclusion and resistance to anti-cancer therapy.
37499788 | Adverse effect of VEGFR-2 (rs1870377) polymorphism on the clinical course of COVID-19 in females and males in an age-dependent manner. The COVID-19 pandemic has affected people worldwide with varying clinical presentations ranging from mild to severe or fatal, and studies have found that age, gender, and some comorbidities can influence the severity of the disease. It would be valuable to have genetic markers that might help predict the likely outcome of infection. For this objective, genes encoding VEGFR-2 (rs1870377), CCR5Delta32 (rs333), and TLR3 (rs5743313) were analyzed for polymorphisms in the peripheral blood of 160 COVID-19 patients before COVID-19 vaccine was available in Turkiye. We observed that possession of the VEGFR-2 rs1870377 mutant allele increased the risk of severe/moderate disease in females and subjects >=65 years of age, but was protective in males <65 years of age. Other significant results were that the CCR5Delta32 allele was protective against severe disease in subjects >=65 years of age, while TLR3 rs5743313 polymorphism was found to be protective against severe/moderate illness in males <65 years of age. The VEGFR-2 rs1870377 mutant allele was a risk factor for severe/moderate disease, particularly in females over the age of 65. These findings suggest that genetic polymorphisms have an age- and sex-dependent influence on the severity of COVID-19, and the VEGFR-2 rs1870377 mutant allele could be a potential predictor of disease severity.
38042809 | Interaction dynamics between innate and adaptive immune cells responding to SARS-CoV-2 vaccination in non-human primates. As SARS-CoV-2 variants continue evolving, testing updated vaccines in non-human primates remains important for guiding human clinical practice. To date, such studies have focused on antibody titers and antigen-specific B and T cell frequencies. Here, we extend our understanding by integrating innate and adaptive immune responses to mRNA-1273 vaccination in rhesus macaques. We sorted innate immune cells from a pre-vaccine time point, as well as innate immune cells and antigen-specific peripheral B and T cells two weeks after each of two vaccine doses and used single-cell sequencing to assess the transcriptomes and adaptive immune receptors of each cell. We show that a subset of S-specific T cells expresses cytokines critical for activating innate responses, with a concomitant increase in CCR5-expressing intermediate monocytes and a shift of natural killer cells to a more cytotoxic phenotype. The second vaccine dose, administered 4 weeks after the first, elicits an increase in circulating germinal center-like B cells 2 weeks later, which are more clonally expanded and enriched for epitopes in the receptor binding domain. Both doses stimulate inflammatory response genes associated with elevated antibody production. Overall, we provide a comprehensive picture of bidirectional signaling between innate and adaptive components of the immune system and suggest potential mechanisms for the enhanced response to secondary exposure.
38357936 | Role of the ubiquitin-proteasome system in the sarcopenic-like phenotype induced by CCL5/RANTES. Sarcopenia is characterized by reduced muscle strength and mass and a decline in muscle fiber diameter and amount of sarcomeric proteins. Sarcopenia involves the activation of the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS). MuRF-1 and atrogin-1 are E3 ubiquitin ligases belonging to UPS, leading to proteolysis mediated by the PSMB 5, 6, and 7 subunits of 20S proteasome. CCL5/RANTES induces a sarcopenic-like effect in muscle cells. The present work explored the impact of CCL5 on UPS components and the influence of UPS on its sarcopenic-like effect. We demonstrated that CCL5 increased MuRF-1 and atrogin-1 protein levels and mRNA levels of subunits PSMB 5, 6, and 7. We used the MG132 inhibitor to elucidate the role of the 20S proteasome in the CCL5-induced sarcopenic-like effect. This inhibitor prevented the decrease in troponin and MHC protein levels and partially prevented the reduction in the diameter of single-isolated FDB muscle fibers induced by CCL5. These findings indicate that CCL5 actively modulates the UPS. Moreover, our results show the direct participation of UPS in the sarcopenic-like phenotype induced by CCL5.
