38449806 | CCR5/CXCR3 antagonist TAK-779 prevents diffuse alveolar damage of the lung in the murine model of the acute respiratory distress syndrome. Introduction: The acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), secondary to viral pneumonitis, is one of the main causes of high mortality in patients with COVID-19 (novel coronavirus disease 2019)-ongoing SARS-CoV-2 infection- reached more than 0.7 billion registered cases. Methods: Recently, we elaborated a non-surgical and reproducible method of the unilateral total diffuse alveolar damage (DAD) of the left lung in ICR mice-a publicly available imitation of the ARDS caused by SARS-CoV-2. Our data read that two C-C chemokine receptor 5 (CCR5) ligands, macrophage inflammatory proteins (MIPs) MIP-1alpha/CCL3 and MIP-1beta/CCL4, are upregulated in this DAD model up to three orders of magnitude compared to the background level. Results: Here, we showed that a nonpeptide compound TAK-779, an antagonist of CCR5/CXCR3, readily prevents DAD in the lung with a single injection of 2.5 mg/kg. Histological analysis revealed reduced peribronchial and perivascular mononuclear infiltration in the lung and mononuclear infiltration of the wall and lumen of the alveoli in the TAK-779-treated animals. Administration of TAK-779 decreased the 3-5-fold level of serum cytokines and chemokines in animals with DAD, including CCR5 ligands MIP-1alpha/beta, MCP-1, and CCL5. Computed tomography revealed rapid recovery of the density and volume of the affected lung in TAK-779-treated animals. Discussion: Our pre-clinical data suggest that TAK-779 is more effective than the administration of dexamethasone or the anti-IL6R therapeutic antibody tocilizumab, which brings novel therapeutic modality to TAK-779 and other CCR5 inhibitors for the treatment of virus-induced hyperinflammation syndromes, including COVID-19.
38566145 | Double-negative T cells ameliorate psoriasis by selectively inhibiting IL-17A-producing gammadeltalow T cells. BACKGROUND: Psoriasis is a chronic immune-mediated skin condition. Although biologic treatments are effective in controlling psoriasis, some patients do not respond or lose response to these therapies. Thus, new strategies for psoriasis treatment are still urgently needed. Double-negative T cells (DNT) play a significant immunoregulatory role in autoimmune diseases. In this study, we aimed to evaluate the protective effect of DNT in psoriasis and explore the underlying mechanism. METHODS: We conducted a single adoptive transfer of DNT into an imiquimod (IMQ)-induced psoriasis mouse model through tail vein injection. The skin inflammation and IL-17A producing gammadelta T cells were evaluated. RESULTS: DNT administration significantly reduced the inflammatory response in mouse skin, characterized by decreased skin folds, scales, and red patches. After DNT treatment, the secretion of IL-17A by RORc+ gammadeltalow T cells in the skin was selectively suppressed, resulting in an amelioration of skin inflammation. Transcriptomic data suggested heightened expression of NKG2D ligands in gammadeltalow T cells within the mouse model of psoriasis induced by IMQ. When blocking the NKG2D ligand and NKG2D (expressed by DNT) interaction, the cytotoxic efficacy of DNT against RORc+IL17A+ gammadeltalow T cells was attenuated. Using Ccr5-/- DNT for treatment yielded evidence that DNT migrates into inflamed skin tissue and fails to protect IMQ-induced skin lesions. CONCLUSIONS: DNT could migrate to inflamed skin tissue through CCR5, selectively inhibit IL-17-producing gammadeltalow T cells and finally ameliorate mouse psoriasis. Our study provides feasibility for using immune cell therapy for the prevention and treatment of psoriasis in the clinic.
216614 | Photolabile and paramagnetic derivatives of the nucleoside X and of Escherichia coli tRNAPhe. The synthesis of N3-[3-L-(5-azido-2-nitrobenzamido)-3-carboxypropyl]uridine (4b) and N3-[3-carboxy-3-L-(2,2,5,5-tetramethyl-3-pyrroline-3-carbonylamino)propyl]uridine Npyr-oxyl (4c) starting from the nucleoside X (4a) and the appropriate N-hydroxysuccinimide ester 1 or 2 is described. After acylation of tRNAPhe from E. coli (5a) with 1 or 2, the photolabile tRNAPhe derivative 5b and the paramagnetic tRNAPhe derivative 5c could be isolated. The position of modification in the polynucleotide chain was elucidated by comparison of the ribonuclease II/alkaline phosphatase digestion products of the substituted and unsubstituted tRNAPhe samples, and was identified as being exclusively the amino group of the nucleoside X in position 47 of E. coli tRNAPhe.
3953157 | N-nitrosamines and residual nitrite in cured meats from the Dutch market. A total of 140 samples of 16 kinds of cured meats were analyzed for contents of residual nitrite and N-nitrosamines. Nitrite was determined by reaction with sulfanilamide/naphthylethylenediamine and colorimetric measurement. N-nitrosamines were isolated from the samples by vacuum distillation and determined by gas-chromatography with chemiluminescence detection (GC-TEA). In six samples no nitrite was detectable (less than 1 mg NaNO2/kg), the remaining samples contained 1-140 mg NaNO2/kg, median value 6.8 mg/kg. In 46 samples (33%) no N-nitrosamines were detected, i.e. less than 0.1-0.5 microgram/kg of the individual nitrosamines, depending upon their structure. N-nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA) was the nitrosamine present most frequently, in 75 samples, contents were 0.1-0.9 microgram/kg, mean 0.3 microgram/kg. Other N-nitrosamines found were: N-nitrosopiperidine (NPIP), 10 times, 0.3-25 micrograms/kg; N-nitrosodiethylamine (NDEA), three times, 0.2-0.9 microgram/kg; N-nitrosopyrrolidine (NPYR), three times, 1.3-4.2 micrograms/kg; N-nitrosomorpholine, once, 0.7 microgram/kg and N-nitrosothiazolidine (NTHZ), 36 times, 0.5-91 micrograms/kg, mean 5.7 micrograms/kg. NTHZ was found most often and with the highest contents in smoked products. Frying of bacon and cured, smoked pork bellies led to substantially increased levels of NPYR in both products, and for the pork bellies also of NTHZ. In five samples of cured, smoked pork bellies after frying NTHZ-contents of 3.6-490 micrograms/kg (mean 179) were found. No correlation between residual nitrite levels and N-nitrosamine contents could be established. Investigations during the nineteen seventies gave much higher levels for NDMA, NDEA, NPIP and NPYR in Dutch cured meats than now found; at that time NTHZ was not measured.
7130088 | Confirmatory method for N-nitrosodimethylamine and N-nitrosopyrrolidine in food by multiple ion analysis with gas chromatography-low resolution mass spectrometry before and after ultraviolet photolysis. A confirmatory procedure is described for determining N-nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA) and N-nitrosopyrrolidine (NPYR) in bacon, beer, and malt by gas chromatography-low resolution quadrupole mass spectrometry (GC-MS). The presence of 3 monitored ions, m/z 30, 42, and 74 for NDMA, and m/z 30, 42, and 100 for NPYR, before and disappearance after photolysis under UV light at 365 nm without quantitation of peak areas was considered confirmatory evidence for their presence. The extracts, obtained by mineral oil distillation methods for bacon and malt, and dry column methods for bacon and beer, underwent cleanup procedures before capillary GC-MS analysis. Less than 100 ng nitrosamine in the total extract, or approximately 2 ng NDMA or 3 ng NPYR injected into the GC-MS instrument, can be confirmed by this method. This technique should also be applicable for other volatile nitrosamines.
19161662 | Identification of N-nitrosamines in treated drinking water using nanoelectrospray ionization high-field asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometry with quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry. We report a nanoelectrospray ionization (nESI) with high-field asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometry (FAIMS) and tandem mass spectrometry (MS-MS) method for determination of small molecules of m/z 50 to 200 and its potential application in environmental analysis. Integration of nESI with FAIMS and MS-MS combines the advantages of these three techniques into one method. The nESI provides efficient sample introduction and ionization and allows for collection of multiple data from only microliters of samples. The FAIMS provides rapid separation, reduces or eliminates background interference, and improves the signal-to-noise ratio as much as 10-fold over nESI-MS-MS. The tandem quadrupole time-of-flight MS detection provides accurate mass and mass spectral measurements for structural identification. Characteristics of FAIMS compensation voltage (CV) spectra of seven nitrosamines, N-nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA), N-nitrosomethylethylamine (NMEA), N-nitrosodiethylamine (NDEA), N-nitrosodi-n-propylamine (NDPA), N-nitrosodi-n-butylamine (NDBA), N-nitrosopiperidine (NPip), and N-nitrosopyrrolidine (NPyr), were analyzed. The optimal CV of the nitrosamines (at DV -4000 V) were: -1.6 V, NDBA; 2.6 V, NDPA; 6.6 V, NPip; 8.8 V, NDEA; 13.2 V, NPyr; 14.4 V, NMEA; and 19.4 V, NDMA. Fragmentation patterns of the seven nitrosamines in the nESI-FAIMS-MS-MS were also obtained. The specific CV and MS-MS spectra resulted in positive identification of NPyr and NPip in a treated water sample, demonstrating the potential application of this technique in environmental analysis.
29153094 | Differences between chronic lymphocytic leukaemia and small lymphocytic lymphoma cells by proteomic profiling and SNP microarray analysis. The majority of malignant cells in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) circulate in the peripheral blood whereas small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) cells reside in tissues. The aim of this study was to detect differences in chemokine receptor expression, DNA single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) microarray analysis and proteomic profiling to help elucidate why the cells remain in their respective environments. We identified by flow cytometric studies of chemokine receptors and DNA SNP microarray analysis significant differences between cells from CLL and SLL patients. Proteomic analysis revealed two potential markers (m/z 3091 and 8707) to distinguish the two disorders. There was a significantly greater expression of leucocyte trafficking receptor CXCR3 (CD183) and migration and homing receptor CXCR4 (CD184), and significantly lower expression of cell adhesion molecule integrin alpha4 chain (CD49d), on CLL cells, compared with SLL cells. Conversely, SNP microarrays revealed greater numbers of copy-neutral loss of heterozygosity chromosomal aberrations, as well as gross chromosomal aberrations, in the SLL group, compared with the CLL group. These findings revealed that there was a significantly greater expression of trafficking, migration and homing receptors and significantly lower expression of adhesion molecules on CLL cells than on SLL cells, and that SLL may be a more progressive disease than CLL, with a more complex genotype.
29950561 | Nuclear Smad6 promotes gliomagenesis by negatively regulating PIAS3-mediated STAT3 inhibition. To date, the molecular mechanism underlying constitutive signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) activation in gliomas is largely unclear. In this study, we report that Smad6 is overexpressed in nuclei of glioma cells, which correlates with poor patient survival and regulates STAT3 activity via negatively regulating the Protein Inhibitors of Activated STAT3 (PIAS3). Mechanically, Smad6 interacts directly with PIAS3, and this interaction is mediated through the Mad homology 2 (MH2) domain of Smad6 and the Ring domain of PIAS3. Smad6 recruits Smurf1 to facilitate PIAS3 ubiquitination and degradation, which also depends on the MH2 domain and the PY motif of Smad6. Consequently, Smad6 reduces PIAS3-mediated STAT3 inhibition and promotes glioma cell growth and stem-like cell initiation. Moreover, the Smad6 MH2 transducible protein restores PIAS3 expression and subsequently reduces gliomagenesis. Collectively, we conclude that nuclear-Smad6 enhances glioma development by inducing PIAS3 degradation and subsequent STAT3 activity upregulation.
30054984 | A positive feedback loop between miR-181b and STAT3 that affects Warburg effect in colon cancer via regulating PIAS3 expression. This study aimed to investigate the relationship between the expression of microRNA (miR)-181b, protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 (PIAS3) and STAT3, and to examine the function of the miR-181b/PIAS3/STAT3 axis on the Warburg effect and xenograft tumour growth of colon cancer. Moreover, a positive feedback loop between miR-181b and STAT3 that regulated the Warburg effect in colon cancer was explored. A luciferase reporter assay was used to identify whether PIAS3 was a direct target of miR-181b. The gain-of-function and loss-of-function experiments were performed on HCT 116 cells to investigate the effect of miR-181b/PIAS3/STAT3 on the Warburg effect and xenograft tumour growth of colon cancer, as determined by commercial kits and xenograft experiments. The relationship between the expression of miR-181b, PIAS3 and STAT3 in HCT 116 and HT-29 cells was determined using RT-qPCR and Western blot. We found miR-181b was a direct regulator of PIAS3. miR-181b promoted the Warburg effect and the growth of colon cancer xenografts; however, these effects could be reversed by PIAS3. miR-181b expression interacted with STAT3 phosphorylation in a positive feedback loop in colon cancer cells via regulating PIAS3 expression. In conclusion, this study for the first time demonstrated that miR-181b contributed to the Warburg effect and xenograft tumour growth of colon cancer by targeting PIAS3. Moreover, a positive feedback loop between miR-181b and STAT3 that regulated the Warburg effect in colon cancer was also demonstrated. This study suggested miR-181b/PIAS3/STAT3 axis as a novel target for colon cancer treatment.
30537729 | RNA-Seq Analyses of the Role of miR-21 in Acute Pancreatitis. BACKGROUND/AIMS: Our previous study demonstrated that a deficiency of microRNA 21 (miR-21) protects mice from acute pancreatitis, yet the underlying molecular networks associated with miR-21 in pancreatitis and pancreatitis-associated lung injury remain unexplored. METHODS: We used next generation sequencing to analyze gene expression profiles of pancreatic tissues from wild-type (WT) and miR-21 knockout (KO) mice treated with caerulein by using a 1-day treatment protocol. The Database for Annotation, Visualization, and Integrated Discovery gene annotation tool and Ingenuity Pathway Analysis were used to analyze the molecular pathways, while quantitative real-time PCR, western blotting, and immunohistochemistry were used to explore the molecular mechanisms. RESULTS: We identified 152 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in pancreata between WT and KO mice treated with caerulein. Cellular biogenesis and metabolism were the major pathways affected between WT and KO mice, whereas cell death and inflammatory response discriminated between WT and KO mice under acute pancreatitis. We validated 16 DEGs, consisting of 6 upregulated genes and 10 downregulated genes, involved in pancreatic injury. In particular, the upregulation of Pias3 and downregulation of Hmgb1 in KO pancreata coincided with a reduced severity of pancreatitis. In addition, we found Hmgb1 stimulation resulted in the overexpression of miR-21 in peripheral blood mononuclear cells, and deletion of miR-21 led to a reduction of caerulein-induced acute pancreatitis-associated lung injury by repressing Hmgb1 expression. CONCLUSION: Our data support the hypothesis that miR-21 modulates the inflammatory response during acute pancreatitis through the upregulation of Pias3 and downregulation of Hmgb1. Our findings further underscore a role for miR-21 in the promotion of acute pancreatitis.
30569507 | LCR1 and LCR2, two multi-analyte blood tests to assess liver cancer risk in patients without or with cirrhosis. BACKGROUND: No blood test has been shown to be effective in the prediction of primary liver cancer in patients without cirrhosis. AIM: To construct and internally validate two sequential tests for early prediction of liver cancer. These tests enable an algorithm which could improve the performance of the standard surveillance protocol recommended (imaging with or without AFP), limited to patients with cirrhosis. METHODS: We performed a retrospective analysis in prospectively collected specimens from an ongoing cohort. We designed an early sensitive high-risk test (LCR1) that combined (using Cox model) hepatoprotective proteins (apolipoproteinA1, haptoglobin) with known risk factors (gender, age, gammaglutamyltranspeptidase), and a marker of fibrosis (alpha2-macroglobulin). To increase the specificity, we then combined (LCR2) these components with alpha-fetoprotein. RESULTS: A total of 9892 patients, 85.9% without cirrhosis, were followed up for 5.9 years [IQR: 4.3-9.4]. LCR1 and LCR2 time-dependent AUROCs were not different in construction and validation randomised subsets. Among 2027 patients with high-LCR1 then high-LCR2, 167 cancers (113 with cirrhosis, 54 without cirrhosis) were detected, that is 12 patients needed to screen one cancer. The negative predictive value was 99.5% (95% CI 99.0-99.7) in the 2026 not screened patients (11 cancers without cirrhosis) higher than the standard surveillance, which detected 113 cancers in 755 patients screened, that is seven patients needed to screen one cancer, but with a lower negative predictive value 98.0% (97.5-98.5; Z = 4.3; P < 0.001) in 3298 not screened patients (42 cancers without cirrhosis). CONCLUSIONS: In patients with chronic liver disease the LCR1 and LCR2 tests identify those with a high risk of liver cancer, including in those without cirrhosis. NCT01927133.
30630513 | Protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 reduces peripheral arthritis and gut inflammation and regulates the Th17/Treg cell imbalance via STAT3 signaling in a mouse model of spondyloarthritis. BACKGROUND: Spondyloarthritis (SpA) is chronic inflammatory arthritis, and interleukin (IL)-17 is crucial in SpA pathogenesis. Type 17 helper T (Th17) cells are one of major IL-17-secreting cells. Signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT)-3 signaling induces Th17 differentiation. This study investigated the effects of protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 (PIAS3) on SpA pathogenesis. Curdlan was injected into SKG ZAP-70W163C mice for SpA induction. METHODS: The PIAS3 or Mock vector was inserted into mice for 10 weeks. Clinical and histologic scores of the paw, spine, and gut were evaluated. The expression of IL-17, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), STAT3, and bone morphogenic protein (BMP) was measured. Confocal microscopy and flow cytometry were used to assess Th cell differentiation. RESULTS: PIAS3 significantly diminished the histologic scores of the paw and gut. PIAS3-treated mice displayed decreased expression of IL-17, TNF-alpha, and STAT3 in the paw, spine, and gut. BMP-2/4 expression was lower in the spines of PIAS3-treated mice. Th cell differentiation was polarized toward the upregulation of regulatory T cells (Tregs) and the downregulation of Th17 in PIAS3-treated mice. CONCLUSION: PIAS3 had beneficial effects in mice with SpA by reducing peripheral arthritis and gut inflammation. Pro-inflammatory cytokines and Th17/Treg differentiation were controlled by PIAS3. In addition, BMPs were decreased in the spines of PIAS3-treated mice. These findings suggest that PIAS3 could have therapeutic benefits in patients with SpA.
30634511 | Crohn's Disease-Associated Adherent-Invasive Escherichia coli Manipulate Host Autophagy by Impairing SUMOylation. The intestinal mucosa of Crohn's disease (CD) patients is abnormally colonized with adherent-invasive Escherichia coli (AIEC) that are able to adhere to and to invade intestinal epithelial cells (IECs), to survive in macrophages, and to induce a pro-inflammatory response. AIEC persist in the intestine, and induce inflammation in CEABAC10 transgenic mice expressing human CAECAM6, the receptor for AIEC. SUMOylation is a eukaryotic-reversible post-translational modification, in which SUMO, an ubiquitin-like polypeptide, is covalently linked to target proteins. Here, we investigated the role of SUMOylation in host responses to AIEC infection. We found that infection with the AIEC LF82 reference strain markedly decreased the levels of SUMO-conjugated proteins in human intestinal epithelial T84 cells. This was also observed in IECs from LF82-infected CEABAC10 transgenic mice. LF82-induced deSUMOylation in IECs was due in part to increased level of microRNA (miR)-18, which targets PIAS3 mRNA encoding a protein involved in SUMOylation. Over-expression of SUMOs in T84 cells induced autophagy, leading to a significant decrease in the number of intracellular LF82. Consistently, a decreased expression of UBC9, a protein necessary for SUMOylation, was accompanied with a decrease of LF82-induced autophagy, increasing bacterial intracellular proliferation and inflammation. Finally, the inhibition of miR-18 significantly decreased the number of intracellular LF82. In conclusion, our results suggest that AIEC inhibits the autophagy response to replicate intracellularly by manipulating host SUMOylation.
30746772 | Editorial: simplifying screening for primary liver cancer - do the LCR1 and LCR2 tests hold the key? 
31208233 | Hormonal and spatial control of SUMOylation in the human and mouse adrenal cortex. SUMOylation is a highly conserved and dynamic post-translational mechanism primarily affecting nuclear programs for adapting organisms to stressful challenges. Alteration of SUMOylation cycles leads to severe developmental and homeostatic defects and malignancy, but signals coordinating SUMOylation are still unidentified. The adrenal cortex is a zonated endocrine gland that controls body homeostasis and stress response. Here, we show that in human and in mouse adrenals, SUMOylation follows a decreasing centripetal gradient that mirrors cortical differentiation flow and delimits highly and weakly SUMOylated steroidogenic compartments, overlapping glomerulosa, and fasciculata zones. Activation of PKA signaling by acute hormonal treatment, mouse genetic engineering, or in Carney complex results in repression of small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) conjugation in the inner cortex by coordinating expression of SUMO pathway inducers and repressors. Conversely, genetic activation of canonical wingless-related integration site signaling maintains high SUMOylation potential in the outer neoplastic cortex. Thus, SUMOylation is tightly regulated by signaling pathways that orchestrate adrenal zonation and diseases.-Dumontet, T., Sahut-Barnola, I., Dufour, D., Lefrancois-Martinez, A.-M., Berthon, A., Montanier, N., Ragazzon, B., Djari, C., Pointud, J.-C., Roucher-Boulez, F., Batisse-Lignier, M., Tauveron, I., Bertherat, J., Val, P., Martinez, A. Hormonal and spatial control of SUMOylation in the human and mouse adrenal cortex.
31373534 | A fine-tuning mechanism underlying self-control for autophagy: deSUMOylation of BECN1 by SENP3. The roles of SUMOylation and the related enzymes in autophagic regulation are unclear. Based on our previous studies that identified the SUMO2/3-specific peptidase SENP3 as an oxidative stress-responsive molecule, we investigated the correlation between SUMOylation and macroautophagy/autophagy. We found that Senp3+- mice showed increased autophagy in the liver under basal and fasting conditions, compared to Senp3+/+ mice. We constructed a liver-specific senp3 knockout mouse; these Senp3-deficient liver tissues showed increased autophagy as well. Autophagic flux was accelerated in hepatic and other cell lines following knockdown of SENP3, both before and after the cells underwent starvation in the form of the serum and amino acid deprivation. We demonstrated that BECN1/beclin 1, the core molecule of the BECN1-PIK3C3 complex, could be SUMO3-conjugated by PIAS3 predominantly at K380 and deSUMOylated by SENP3. The basal SUMOylation of BECN1 was increased upon cellular starvation, which enhanced autophagosome formation by facilitating BECN1 interaction with other complex components UVRAG, PIK3C3 and ATG14, thus promoting PIK3C3 activity. In contrast, SENP3 deSUMOylated BECN1, which impaired BECN1-PIK3C3 complex formation or stability to suppress the PIK3C3 activity. DeSUMOylation of BECN1 restrained autophagy induction under basal conditions and especially upon starvation when SENP3 had accumulated in response to the increased generation of reactive oxygen species. Thus, while reversible SUMOylation regulated the degree of autophagy, SENP3 provided an intrinsic overflow valve for fine-tuning autophagy induction. ABBREVIATIONS: AL: autolysosome; AP: autophagosome; ATG: autophagy related; ATG14: autophagy related 14; BECN1: beclin 1, autophagy related; cKO: conditional knockout; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CQ: chloroquine; EBSS: Earle's balanced salt solution; GFP: green fluorescent protein; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; NAC: N-acetyl-L-cysteine; PIK3C3: phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic subunit type 3; PTM: post-translational modification; RFP: red fluorescent protein; ROS: reactive oxygen species; RUBCN/rubicon: RUN domain and cysteine-rich domain containing, BECN1-interacting protein; SENP3: SUMO specific peptidase 3; shRNA: small hairpin RNA; siRNA: small interfering RNA; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1; SUMO: small ubiquitin-like modifier; UVRAG: UV radiation resistance associated gene.
32231468 | Activation of CREB Protein With Tabersonine Attenuates STAT3 During Atherosclerosis in Apolipoprotein E-Deficient Mice. OBJECTIVE: Atherosclerosis is a pathological condition of fat deposition in the arteries, which causes cardiovascular disorders. Management of atherosclerosis remains a challenge and conventional drugs used for its management have several limitations. This study evaluated the protective effect of tabersonine against atherosclerosis and assessed its molecular mechanism of action. METHODS: Atherosclerosis was induced by feeding apolipoprotein E (ApoE)-deficient mice a high-fat diet. Mice were treated with 20 or 40 mg/kg of tabersonine intraperitoneally for the 12-week duration of the study. Atherosclerosis markers and nitric oxide were measured in the sera of ApoE-deficient mice. Mediators of inflammation and markers of oxidative stress were assessed using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. Western blotting, quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction, and immunohistochemistry analyses were conducted to determine the protein expression in aortic tissue. RESULTS: The tabersonine-treatment groups had an improved lipid profile and enhanced liver function, compared to the ApoE treatment group. Tabersonine treatment resulted in reduced levels of nitric oxide, cytokines, and oxidative stress, compared to the ApoE group. The altered expression levels of protein inhibitor activated STAT-3 (PIAS3), signal transducer and activator of transcription-3 (STAT-3), and nuclear factor of kappa light polypeptide gene enhancer in B-cells inhibitor, alpha (IkBalpha) in ApoE-deficient mice were ameliorated by tabersonine treatment. Moreover, cAMP-response-element-binding (CREB) expression was elevated in aortic tissue of tabersonine treatment groups, compared to the ApoE group. CONCLUSION: These results suggested that tabersonine ameliorates the expression of STAT-3 by activating CREB protein in atherosclerotic ApoE-deficient mice.
32398867 | Cancer exosome-derived miR-9 and miR-181a promote the development of early-stage MDSCs via interfering with SOCS3 and PIAS3 respectively in breast cancer. We previously identified that the development of early-stage myeloid-derived suppressor cells (eMDSCs) in breast cancer with high IL-6 (IL-6high) expression was correlated with the SOCS3 deficiency-dependent hyperactivation of the JAK/STAT signaling pathway. However, the regulatory mechanisms have not yet been elucidated. In this study, we aimed to investigate how the posttranscriptional regulation mediated by cancer exosome-derived miRNAs affected the JAK/STAT signaling pathway and the development of eMDSCs. Using miRNA microarray, we screened miR-9 and miR-181a which were exclusively upregulated in eMDSCs and inversely associated with SOCS3 expression. We found both miRNAs promoted the amplification of immature eMDSCs with the strong suppression on T-cell immunity in mice and humans. Furthermore, miR-9 and miR-181a promoted 4T1 tumor growth and immune escape via enhancing eMDSCs infiltration in situ. But miR-9 and miR-181a stimulated eMDSCs development by separately inhibiting SOCS3 and PIAS3, two crucial regulators in the negative feedback loop of the JAK/STAT signaling pathway. Elevated miR-9 and miR-181a in eMDSCs was derived from tumor-derived exosomes, and blocking the exosome release could fully attenuate the miRNA-mediated regulation on eMDSCs development. In summary, our findings indicated that tumor exosome-derived miR-9 and miR-181a activated the JAK/STAT signaling pathway via targeting SOCS3 and PIAS3, respectively, and thus promoted the expansion of eMDSCs which might provide potential therapeutic target for IL-6high breast cancer treatment.
32415173 | ROR2 suppresses metastasis of prostate cancer via regulation of miR-199a-5p-PIAS3-AKT2 signaling axis. Bones are the most common metastatic sites for prostate cancer (PCa). Receptor tyrosine kinase-like orphan receptor 2 (ROR2), a noncanonical Wnt receptor, plays crucial roles in skeletal morphogenesis, osteoblast differentiation, and bone formation. The role of ROR2 in PCa metastasis is unclear. We analyzed online datasets from Oncomine as well as using IHC staining on tissue array to determine the relationship between ROR2 expression level and disease outcome of PCa. To investigate how ROR2 regulates migration and invasion of PCa cells, we performed transwell assay and orthotopic xenograft model in nude mice. We then applied the Micro-Western Array (MWA), a high-throughput western blotting platform to analyze the downstream signaling pathways being regulated by ROR2. Compared with nonmalignant PZ-HPV-7 and RWPE-1 cells, PCa cell lines express lower level of ROR2 protein. Constitutive expression of ROR2 in PC-3, DU-145, or C4-2B PCa cells significantly suppressed the cell migration, invasion, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) proteins. MWA, western blotting, and microRNA analysis showed that elevation of ROR2 suppressed the expression of miR-199a-5p, which in turn increased the expression of PIAS3. The upregulation of PIAS3 then decreased AKT2 and the phosphorylation of AKT, resulting in the inhibition of migration and invasion of PCa cells both in vitro and in orthotopic xenograft mice model. IHC staining of tissue array and Oncomine datasets analysis indicated that the gene and protein level of ROR2 is much lower in metastatic prostate tumors as compared with primary tumors or adjacent normal prostate tissues. Low level of ROR2 correlated to poor survival and high recurrent frequency in PCa patients. In conclusion, we discovered that ROR2 suppresses PCa metastasis via regulation of PIAS3-PI3K-AKT2 signaling axis.
33327748 | CXCR4-Binding Positron Emission Tomography Tracers Link Monocyte Recruitment and Endothelial Injury in Murine Atherosclerosis. OBJECTIVE: vMIP-II (viral macrophage inflammatory protein 2)/vCCL2 (viral chemotactic cytokine ligand 2) binds to multiple chemokine receptors, and vMIP-II-based positron emission tomography tracer (64Cu-DOTA-vMIP-II: vMIP-II tracer) accumulates at atherosclerotic lesions in mice. Given that it would be expected to react with multiple chemokine receptors on monocytes and macrophages, we wondered if its accumulation in atherosclerosis lesion-bearing mice might correlate with overall macrophage burden or, alternatively, the pace of monocyte recruitment. Approach and Results: We employed a mouse model of atherosclerosis regression involving adenoassociated virus 8 vector encoding murine Apoe (AAV-mApoE) treatment of Apoe-/- mice where the pace of monocyte recruitment slows before macrophage burden subsequently declines. Accumulation of 64Cu-DOTA-vMIP-II at Apoe-/- plaque sites was strong but declined with AAV-mApoE-induced decline in monocyte recruitment, before macrophage burden reduced. Monocyte depletion indicated that monocytes and macrophages themselves were not the only target of the 64Cu-DOTA-vMIP-II tracer. Using fluorescence-tagged vMIP-II tracer, competitive receptor blocking with CXCR4 antagonists, endothelial-specific Cre-mediated deletion of CXCR4, CXCR4-specific tracer 64Cu-DOTA-FC131, and CXCR4 staining during disease progression and regression, we show endothelial cell expression of CXCR4 is a key target of 64Cu-DOTA-vMIP-II imaging. Expression of CXCR4 was low in nonplaque areas but strongly detected on endothelium of progressing plaques, especially on proliferating endothelium, where vascular permeability was increased and monocyte recruitment was the strongest. CONCLUSIONS: Endothelial injury status of plaques is marked by CXCR4 expression and this injury correlates with the tendency of such plaques to recruit monocytes. Furthermore, our findings suggest positron emission tomography tracers that mark CXCR4 can be used translationally to monitor the state of plaque injury and monocyte recruitment.
33376963 | Non-full-length Water-Soluble CXCR4QTY and CCR5QTY Chemokine Receptors: Implication for Overlooked Truncated but Functional Membrane Receptors. It was posited that functionalities of GPCRs require full-length sequences that are negated by residue deletions. Here we report that significantly truncated nfCCR5QTY and nfCXCR4QTY still bind native ligands. Receptor-ligand interactions were discovered from yeast 2-hybrid screening and confirmed by mating selection. Two nfCCR5QTY (SZ218a, SZ190b) and two nfCXCR4QTY (SZ158a, SZ146a) were expressed in E. coli. Synthesized receptors exhibited alpha-helical structures and bound respective ligands with reduced affinities. SZ190b and SZ158a were reconverted into non-QTY forms and expressed in HEK293T cells. Reconverted receptors localized on cell membranes and functioned as negative regulators for ligand-induced signaling when co-expressed with full-length receptors. CCR5-SZ190b individually can perform signaling at a reduced level with higher ligand concentration. Our findings provide insight into essential structural components for CCR5 and CXCR4 functionality, while raising the possibility that non-full-length receptors may be resulted from alternative splicing and that pseudo-genes in genomes may be present and functional in living organisms.
33478139 | Single-Molecule Super-Resolution Imaging of T-Cell Plasma Membrane CD4 Redistribution upon HIV-1 Binding. The first step of cellular entry for the human immunodeficiency virus type-1 (HIV-1) occurs through the binding of its envelope protein (Env) with the plasma membrane receptor CD4 and co-receptor CCR5 or CXCR4 on susceptible cells, primarily CD4+ T cells and macrophages. Although there is considerable knowledge of the molecular interactions between Env and host cell receptors that lead to successful fusion, the precise way in which HIV-1 receptors redistribute to sites of virus binding at the nanoscale remains unknown. Here, we quantitatively examine changes in the nanoscale organisation of CD4 on the surface of CD4+ T cells following HIV-1 binding. Using single-molecule super-resolution imaging, we show that CD4 molecules are distributed mostly as either individual molecules or small clusters of up to 4 molecules. Following virus binding, we observe a local 3-to-10-fold increase in cluster diameter and molecule number for virus-associated CD4 clusters. Moreover, a similar but smaller magnitude reorganisation of CD4 was also observed with recombinant gp120. For one of the first times, our results quantify the nanoscale CD4 reorganisation triggered by HIV-1 on host CD4+ T cells. Our quantitative approach provides a robust methodology for characterising the nanoscale organisation of plasma membrane receptors in general with the potential to link spatial organisation to function.
33548004 | The DOCK protein family in vascular development and disease. The vascular network is established and maintained through the processes of vasculogenesis and angiogenesis, which are tightly regulated during embryonic and postnatal life. The formation of a functional vasculature requires critical cellular mechanisms, such as cell migration, proliferation and adhesion, which are dependent on the activity of small Rho GTPases, controlled in part by the dedicator of cytokinesis (DOCK) protein family. Whilst the majority of DOCK proteins are associated with neuronal development, a growing body of evidence has indicated that members of the DOCK family may have key functions in the control of vasculogenic and angiogenic processes. This is supported by the involvement of several angiogenic signalling pathways, including chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR4), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K), in the regulation of specific DOCK proteins. This review summarises recent progress in understanding the respective roles of DOCK family proteins during vascular development. We focus on existing in vivo and in vitro models and known human disease phenotypes and highlight potential mechanisms of DOCK protein dysfunction in the pathogenesis of vascular disease.
33853349 | Vascular Regenerative Capacity and the Obesity Paradox in Coronary Artery Disease. [Figure: see text].
33980979 | Biased action of the CXCR4-targeting drug plerixafor is essential for its superior hematopoietic stem cell mobilization. Following the FDA-approval of the hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) mobilizer plerixafor, orally available and potent CXCR4 antagonists were pursued. One such proposition was AMD11070, which was orally active and had superior antagonism in vitro; however, it did not appear as effective for HSC mobilization in vivo. Here we show that while AMD11070 acts as a full antagonist, plerixafor acts biased by stimulating beta-arrestin recruitment while fully antagonizing G protein. Consequently, while AMD11070 prevents the constitutive receptor internalization, plerixafor allows it and thereby decreases receptor expression. These findings are confirmed by the successful transfer of both ligands' binding sites and action to the related CXCR3 receptor. In vivo, plerixafor exhibits superior HSC mobilization associated with a dramatic reversal of the CXCL12 gradient across the bone marrow endothelium, which is not seen for AMD11070. We propose that the biased action of plerixafor is central for its superior therapeutic effect in HSC mobilization.
34142550 | Chemical Synthesis of TFF3 Reveals Novel Mechanistic Insights and a Gut-Stable Metabolite. TFF3 regulates essential gastro- and neuroprotective functions, but its molecular mode of action remains poorly understood. Synthetic intractability and lack of reliable bioassays and validated receptors are bottlenecks for mechanistic and structure-activity relationship studies. Here, we report the chemical synthesis of TFF3 and its homodimer via native chemical ligation followed by oxidative folding. Correct folding was confirmed by NMR and circular dichroism, and TFF3 and its homodimer were not cytotoxic or hemolytic. TFF3, its homodimer, and the trefoil domain (TFF310-50) were susceptible to gastrointestinal degradation, revealing a gut-stable metabolite (TFF37-54; t1/2 > 24 h) that retained its trefoil structure and antiapoptotic bioactivity. We tried to validate the putative TFF3 receptors CXCR4 and LINGO2, but neither TFF3 nor its homodimer displayed any activity up to 10 muM. The discovery of a gut-stable bioactive metabolite and reliable synthetic accessibility to TFF3 and its analogues are cornerstones for future molecular probe development and structure-activity relationship studies.
34404752 | The dimeric form of CXCL12 binds to atypical chemokine receptor 1. The pleiotropic chemokine CXCL12 is involved in diverse physiological and pathophysiological processes, including embryogenesis, hematopoiesis, leukocyte migration, and tumor metastasis. It is known to engage the classical receptor CXCR4 and the atypical receptor ACKR3. Differential receptor engagement can transduce distinct cellular signals and effects as well as alter the amount of free, extracellular chemokine. CXCR4 binds both monomeric and the more commonly found dimeric forms of CXCL12, whereas ACKR3 binds monomeric forms. Here, we found that CXCL12 also bound to the atypical receptor ACKR1 (previously known as Duffy antigen/receptor for chemokines or DARC). In vitro nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy and isothermal titration calorimetry revealed that dimeric CXCL12 bound to the extracellular N terminus of ACKR1 with low nanomolar affinity, whereas the binding affinity of monomeric CXCL12 was orders of magnitude lower. In transfected MDCK cells and primary human Duffy-positive erythrocytes, a dimeric, but not a monomeric, construct of CXCL12 efficiently bound to and internalized with ACKR1. This interaction between CXCL12 and ACKR1 provides another layer of regulation of the multiple biological functions of CXCL12. The findings also raise the possibility that ACKR1 can bind other dimeric chemokines, thus potentially further expanding the role of ACKR1 in chemokine retention and presentation.
34501388 | Bone Marrow Microenvironment Interplay and Current Clinical Practice in Multiple Myeloma: A Review of the Balkan Myeloma Study Group. The course of multiple myeloma (MM) is influenced by a variety of factors, including the specificity of the tumour microenvironment (TME). The aim of this review is to provide insight into the interplay of treatment modalities used in the current clinical practice and TME. Bortezomib-based triplets are the standard for MM first-line treatment. Bortezomib is a proteasome inhibitor (PI) which inhibits the nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) pathway. However, bortezomib is decreasing the expression of chemokine receptor CXCR4 as well, possibly leading to the escape of extramedullary disease. Immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs), lenalidomide, and pomalidomide downregulate regulatory T cells (Tregs). Daratumumab, anti-cluster of differentiation 38 (anti-CD38) monoclonal antibody (MoAb), downregulates Tregs CD38+. Bisphosphonates inhibit osteoclasts and angiogenesis. Sustained suppression of bone resorption characterises the activity of MoAb denosumab. The plerixafor, used in the process of stem cell mobilisation and harvesting, block the interaction of chemokine receptors CXCR4-CXCL12, leading to disruption of MM cells' interaction with the TME, and mobilisation into the circulation. The introduction of several T-cell-based immunotherapeutic modalities, such as chimeric-antigen-receptor-transduced T cells (CAR T cells) and bispecific antibodies, represents a new perspective in MM treatment affecting TME immune evasion. The optimal treatment approach to MM patients should be adjusted to all aspects of the individual profile including the TME niche.
34887661 | Therapeutic Potential of Exosomal circRNA Derived from Synovial Mesenchymal Cells via Targeting circEDIL3/miR-485-3p/PIAS3/STAT3/VEGF Functional Module in Rheumatoid Arthritis. BACKGROUND: Synovial inflammation and its associated activation of angiogenesis play critical roles in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Exosomes, as carriers of genetic information including circular RNAs (circRNAs), have been explored as delivery vehicles for therapeutic molecules. However, the effects of synovial mesenchymal stem cells (SMSCs)-derived exosomal circRNAs and their mechanisms of action in RA progression remain unclear. METHODS: SMSCs-derived exosomes (SMSCs-Exos) were administered to a co-culture of RA fibroblast-like synoviocytes (RA-FLS) and human dermal microvascular endothelial cells (HDMECs) in vitro as well as to a collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) mouse model in vivo. Their effects on VEGF expression and angiogenic activity in vitro and the therapeutic efficacy in vivo were evaluated. Exosomes from circEDIL3-overexpressing SMSCs (Ad-circEDIL3-SMSCs-Exos) were used to further determine the role of circEDIL3 in SMSCs-Exo-based therapy. RESULTS: Both SMSCs-Exos and Ad-circEDIL3-SMSCs-Exos significantly downregulated the expression of VEGF induced by the IL-6/sIL-6R complex in the supernatants of RA-FLS and HDMECs co-culture as well as in the cell lysate of co-cultured RA-FLS, and the extent of reduction was more pronounced in the latter. Subsequent experiments showed that angiogenic activity was significantly downregulated by SMSCs-Exos and Ad-circEDIL3-SMSCs-Exos due to reduced VEGF expression. CircEDIL3 functioned as a sponge for miR-485-3p, which targeted PIAS3. PIAS3 is known to suppress STAT3 activity and reduce downstream VEGF. Injection of SMSCs-Exos or Ad-circEDIL3-SMSCs-Exos reduced synovial VEGF and consequently ameliorated arthritis severity in the CIA mouse model. CONCLUSION: The intracellular transfer of circEDIL3 by SMSCs-Exos may be a potential novel therapeutic strategy for RA.
35007290 | Hyperinflammatory environment drives dysfunctional myeloid cell effector response to bacterial challenge in COVID-19. COVID-19 displays diverse disease severities and symptoms including acute systemic inflammation and hypercytokinemia, with subsequent dysregulation of immune cells. Bacterial superinfections in COVID-19 can further complicate the disease course and are associated with increased mortality. However, there is limited understanding of how SARS-CoV-2 pathogenesis and hypercytokinemia impede the innate immune function against bacterial superinfections. We assessed the influence of COVID-19 plasma hypercytokinemia on the functional responses of myeloid immune cells upon bacterial challenges from acute-phase COVID-19 patients and their corresponding recovery-phase. We show that a severe hypercytokinemia status in COVID-19 patients correlates with the development of bacterial superinfections. Neutrophils and monocytes derived from COVID-19 patients in their acute-phase showed an impaired intracellular microbicidal capacity upon bacterial challenges. The impaired microbicidal capacity was reflected by abrogated MPO and reduced NETs production in neutrophils along with reduced ROS production in both neutrophils and monocytes. Moreover, we observed a distinct pattern of cell surface receptor expression on both neutrophils and monocytes, in line with suppressed autocrine and paracrine cytokine signaling. This phenotype was characterized by a high expression of CD66b, CXCR4 and low expression of CXCR1, CXCR2 and CD15 in neutrophils and low expression of HLA-DR, CD86 and high expression of CD163 and CD11b in monocytes. Furthermore, the impaired antibacterial effector function was mediated by synergistic effect of the cytokines TNF-alpha, IFN-gamma and IL-4. COVID-19 patients receiving dexamethasone showed a significant reduction of overall inflammatory markers in the plasma as well as exhibited an enhanced immune response towards bacterial challenge ex vivo. Finally, broad anti-inflammatory treatment was associated with a reduction in CRP, IL-6 levels as well as length of ICU stay and ventilation-days in critically ill COVID-19 patients. Our data provides insights into the transient functional dysregulation of myeloid immune cells against subsequent bacterial infections in COVID-19 patients and describe a beneficial role for the use of dexamethasone in these patients.
35046942 | Single-Cell Analysis Reveals the Immune Characteristics of Myeloid Cells and Memory T Cells in Recovered COVID-19 Patients With Different Severities. Despite many studies on the immune characteristics of Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) patients in the progression stage, a detailed understanding of pertinent immune cells in recovered patients is lacking. We performed single-cell RNA sequencing on samples from recovered COVID-19 patients and healthy controls. We created a comprehensive immune landscape with more than 260,000 peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from 41 samples by integrating our dataset with previously reported datasets, which included samples collected between 27 and 47 days after symptom onset. According to our large-scale single-cell analysis, recovered patients, who had severe symptoms (severe/critical recovered), still exhibited peripheral immune disorders 1-2 months after symptom onset. Specifically, in these severe/critical recovered patients, human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class II and antigen processing pathways were downregulated in both CD14 monocytes and dendritic cells compared to healthy controls, while the proportion of CD14 monocytes increased. These may lead to the downregulation of T-cell differentiation pathways in memory T cells. However, in the mild/moderate recovered patients, the proportion of plasmacytoid dendritic cells increased compared to healthy controls, accompanied by the upregulation of HLA-DRA and HLA-DRB1 in both CD14 monocytes and dendritic cells. In addition, T-cell differentiation regulation and memory T cell-related genes FOS, JUN, CD69, CXCR4, and CD83 were upregulated in the mild/moderate recovered patients. Further, the immunoglobulin heavy chain V3-21 (IGHV3-21) gene segment was preferred in B-cell immune repertoires in severe/critical recovered patients. Collectively, we provide a large-scale single-cell atlas of the peripheral immune response in recovered COVID-19 patients.
35204787 | Mcm5 Represses Endodermal Migration through Cxcr4a-itgb1b Cascade Instead of Cell Cycle Control. Minichromosome maintenance protein 5 (MCM5) is a critical cell cycle regulator; its role in DNA replication is well known, but whether it is involved in the regulation of organogenesis in a cell cycle-independent way, is far from clear. In this study, we found that a loss of mcm5 function resulted in a mildly smaller liver, but that mcm5 overexpression led to liver bifida. Further, the data showed that mcm5 overexpression delayed endodermal migration in the ventral-dorsal axis and induced the liver bifida. Cell cycle analysis showed that a loss of mcm5 function, but not overexpression, resulted in cell cycle delay and increased cell apoptosis during gastrulation, implying that liver bifida was not the result of a cell cycle defect. In terms of its mechanism, our data proves that mcm5 represses the expression of cxcr4a, which sequentially causes a decrease in the expression of itgb1b during gastrulation. The downregulation of the cxcr4a-itgb1b cascade leads to an endodermal migration delay during gastrulation, as well as to the subsequent liver bifida during liver morphogenesis. In conclusion, our results suggest that in a cell cycle-independent way, mcm5 works as a gene expression regulator, either partially and directly, or indirectly repressing the expression of cxcr4a and the downstream gene itgb1b, to coordinate endodermal migration during gastrulation and liver location during liver organogenesis.
35263584 | Targeted intracellular delivery of Cas13 and Cas9 nucleases using bacterial toxin-based platforms. Targeted delivery of therapeutic proteins toward specific cells and across cell membranes remains major challenges. Here, we develop protein-based delivery systems utilizing detoxified single-chain bacterial toxins such as diphtheria toxin (DT) and botulinum neurotoxin (BoNT)-like toxin, BoNT/X, as carriers. The system can deliver large protein cargoes including Cas13a, CasRx, Cas9, and Cre recombinase into cells in a receptor-dependent manner, although delivery of ribonucleoproteins containing guide RNAs is not successful. Delivery of Cas13a and CasRx, together with guide RNA expression, reduces mRNAs encoding GFP, SARS-CoV-2 fragments, and endogenous proteins PPIB, KRAS, and CXCR4 in multiple cell lines. Delivery of Cre recombinase modifies the reporter loci in cells. Delivery of Cas9, together with guide RNA expression, generates mutations at the targeted genomic sites in cell lines and induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived human neurons. These findings establish modular delivery systems based on single-chain bacterial toxins for delivery of membrane-impermeable therapeutics into targeted cells.
36214307 | Bioinformatics analysis to identify intersection genes, associated pathways and therapeutic drugs between COVID-19 and Oral candidiasis. BACKGROUND: Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), has a serious threat to human health. Oral candidiasis (OC) may be one of the causes of morbidity in severe COVID-19 patients. However, there is currently no treatment for oral candidiasis and COVID-19 (OC/COVID-19). The purpose of this study was to use text mining and data analysis to investigate the target genes for treatment and explore potential therapeutic drugs for OC/COVID-19. METHODS: We used the text mining tool pubmed2ensembl to detect genes associated with OC, and the dataset GSE164805 was used for the data analysis. Then, Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analyses were performed on the two intersection genes using the Database of Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery (DAVID) platform. The protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks were constructed by STRING software, and gene module analysis was performed using Molecular Complex Detection (MCODE), a plug-in in Cytoscape. The most significant genes were selected as hub genes and their functions and pathways were analyzed using Metascape. We revealed the upstream pathway activity of the hub genes. The drug-gene interaction database (DGIdb) and the traditional Chinese medicines integrated database (TCMID) were used to discover potential drugs for the treatment of OC/COVID-19. RESULTS: The analysis indicated that there were 2869 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in GSE164805. We identified 161 unique genes associated with oral candidiasis through text mining. A total of 20 intersection genes were identified as the therapeutic targets for OC/COVID-19. Based on the bioinformatics analysis, nine genes (TNF, IL1B, IFNG, CSF2, ELANE, CCL2, MMP9, CXCR4, and IL1A) were identified as hub genes that were mainly enriched in the IL-17 signaling pathway, TNF signaling pathway, AGE-RAGE signaling pathway in diabetic complications and NOD-like receptor signaling pathway. We identified four of the nine genes that target five existing drugs, including BKT140, mavorixafor, sivelestat, canakinumab, and rilonacept. Furthermore, twenty herb ingredients were also screened as potential drugs. CONCLUSION: In this study, TNF, IL1B, IFNG, CSF2, ELANE, CCL2, MMP9, CXCR4, and IL1A were potentially key genes involved in the treatment of OC/COVID-19. Taken together five drugs and twenty herb ingredients were identified as potential therapeutic agents for OC/COVID-19 treatment and management.
37040097 | The CXCR4/miR-1910-5p/MMRN2 Axis Is Involved in Corneal Neovascularization by Affecting Vascular Permeability. Purpose: Chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4) plays an essential role in the early stage of corneal neovascularization (CNV), but the underlying key molecular mechanism has yet to be addressed. This study aimed to explore the new molecular mechanism of CXCR4 in CNV and the related pathological events. Methods: CXCR4 was assayed by immunofluorescence or Western blotting. The function of the supernatant from hypoxia-treated human corneal epithelial cells (HCE-T) cells was examined by culturing with human umbilical vein endothelial cells. MicroRNA sequencing was used to detect the downstream microRNAs upon CXCR4 knockdown and analyzed by preliminary bioinformatics. The proangiogenic functions and downstream target genes of microRNA were investigated by gene interference and luciferase assay. An alkali-burned murine model was introduced to examine the function and mechanism of miR-1910-5p in vivo. Results: High CXCR4 expression was confirmed in corneal tissues of patients with CNV and hypoxic HCE-T cells. The supernatant from hypoxia-treated HCE-T cells is involved in the CXCR4-mediated angiogenesis of human umbilical vein endothelial cells. Notably, miR-1910-5p was demonstrated to be at a high level in wild-type HCE-T cells and its supernatant, and in CNV patient tears. The proangiogenic functions of miR-1910-5p were demonstrated with the assays of cell migration, tube formation, and aortic ring. Moreover, miR-1910-5p significantly inhibited multimerin-2 expression by targeting its 3' untranslated region and caused significant extracellular junctional defects in human umbilical vein endothelial cells. MiR-1910-5p antagomir could significantly increase multimerin-2 level and decrease vascular leakage, and ultimately inhibit CNV in a murine model. Conclusions: Our results revealed a novel CXCR4-mediated mechanism and proved that targeting the miR-1910-5p/multimerin-2 pathway could be a promising therapeutic target for CNV.
37069359 | Motixafortide and G-CSF to mobilize hematopoietic stem cells for autologous transplantation in multiple myeloma: a randomized phase 3 trial. Autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (ASCT) improves survival in multiple myeloma (MM). However, many individuals are unable to collect optimal CD34+ hematopoietic stem and progenitor cell (HSPC) numbers with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) mobilization. Motixafortide is a novel cyclic-peptide CXCR4 inhibitor with extended in vivo activity. The GENESIS trial was a prospective, phase 3, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study with the objective of assessing the superiority of motixafortide + G-CSF over placebo + G-CSF to mobilize HSPCs for ASCT in MM. The primary endpoint was the proportion of patients collecting >=6 x 106 CD34+ cells kg-1 within two apheresis procedures; the secondary endpoint was to achieve this goal in one apheresis. A total of 122 adult patients with MM undergoing ASCT were enrolled at 18 sites across five countries and randomized (2:1) to motixafortide + G-CSF or placebo + G-CSF for HSPC mobilization. Motixafortide + G-CSF enabled 92.5% to successfully meet the primary endpoint versus 26.2% with placebo + G-CSF (odds ratio (OR) 53.3, 95% confidence interval (CI) 14.12-201.33, P < 0.0001). Motixafortide + G-CSF also enabled 88.8% to meet the secondary endpoint versus 9.5% with placebo + G-CSF (OR 118.0, 95% CI 25.36-549.35, P < 0.0001). Motixafortide + G-CSF was safe and well tolerated, with the most common treatment-emergent adverse events observed being transient, grade 1/2 injection site reactions (pain, 50%; erythema, 27.5%; pruritis, 21.3%). In conclusion, motixafortide + G-CSF mobilized significantly greater CD34+ HSPC numbers within two apheresis procedures versus placebo + G-CSF while preferentially mobilizing increased numbers of immunophenotypically and transcriptionally primitive HSPCs. Trial Registration: ClinicalTrials.gov , NCT03246529.
37217705 | Spatial dysregulation of T follicular helper cells impairs vaccine responses in aging. The magnitude and quality of the germinal center (GC) response decline with age, resulting in poor vaccine-induced immunity in older individuals. A functional GC requires the co-ordination of multiple cell types across time and space, in particular across its two functionally distinct compartments: the light and dark zones. In aged mice, there is CXCR4-mediated mislocalization of T follicular helper (TFH) cells to the dark zone and a compressed network of follicular dendritic cells (FDCs) in the light zone. Here we show that TFH cell localization is critical for the quality of the antibody response and for the expansion of the FDC network upon immunization. The smaller GC and compressed FDC network in aged mice were corrected by provision of TFH cells that colocalize with FDCs using CXCR5. This demonstrates that the age-dependent defects in the GC response are reversible and shows that TFH cells support stromal cell responses to vaccines.
37250913 | Innovations in hematopoietic stem-cell mobilization: a review of the novel CXCR4 inhibitor motixafortide. Hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation (HCT) and stem-cell-based gene therapies rely on the ability to collect sufficient CD34+ hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs), typically via peripheral blood mobilization. Commonly used HSPC mobilization regimens include single-agent granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF), plerixafor, chemotherapy, or a combination of these agents. These regimens, however, frequently require multiple days of injections and leukapheresis procedures to collect adequate HSPCs for HCT (minimum = >2 x 106 CD34+ cells/kg; optimal = 5-6 x 106 CD34+ cells/kg). In addition, these regimens frequently yield suboptimal CD34+ HSPC numbers for HSPC-based gene-edited therapies, given the significantly higher HSPC number needed for successful gene-editing and manufacturing. Meanwhile, G-CSF is associated with common adverse events such as bone pain as well as an increased risk of rare but potentially life-threatening splenic rupture. Moreover, G-CSF is unsafe in patients with sickle-cell disease, a key patient population that may benefit from autologous HSPC-based gene-edited therapies, where it has been associated with unacceptable rates of serious vaso-occlusive and thrombotic events. Motixafortide is a novel CXCR4 inhibitor with extended in vivo activity (>48 h) that has been shown in preclinical and clinical trials to rapidly mobilize robust numbers of HSPCs in preparation for HCT, while preferentially mobilizing increased numbers of more primitive HSPCs by immunophenotyping and single-cell RNA expression profiling. In this review, we present a history of stem-cell mobilization and update of recent innovations in novel mobilization strategies with a specific focus on the development of motixafortide, a long-acting CXCR4 inhibitor, as a novel HSPC mobilizing agent.
37290620 | CXCR4 expression is elevated in TNBC patient derived samples and Z-guggulsterone abrogates tumor progression by targeting CXCL12/CXCR4 signaling axis in preclinical breast cancer model. Environmental factors such as exposure to ionizing radiations, certain environmental pollutants, and toxic chemicals are considered as risk factors in the development of breast cancer. Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is a molecular variant of breast cancer that lacks therapeutic targets such as progesterone receptor, estrogen receptor, and human epidermal growth factor receptor-2 which makes the targeted therapy ineffective in TNBC patients. Therefore, identification of new therapeutic targets for the treatment of TNBC and the discovery of new therapeutic agents is the need of the hour. In this study, CXCR4 was found to be highly expressed in majority of breast cancer tissues and metastatic lymph nodes derived from TNBC patients. CXCR4 expression is positively correlated with breast cancer metastasis and poor prognosis of TNBC patients suggesting that suppression of CXCR4 expression could be a good strategy in the treatment of TNBC patients. Therefore, the effect of Z-guggulsterone (ZGA) on the expression of CXCR4 in TNBC cells was examined. ZGA downregulated protein and mRNA expression of CXCR4 in TNBC cells and proteasome inhibition or lysosomal stabilization had no effect on the ZGA-induced CXCR4 reduction. CXCR4 is under the transcriptional control of NF-kappaB, whereas ZGA was found to downregulate transcriptional activity of NF-kappaB. Functionally, ZGA downmodulated the CXCL12-driven migration/invasion in TNBC cells. Additionally, the effect of ZGA on growth of tumor was investigated in the orthotopic TNBC mice model. ZGA presented good inhibition of tumor growth and liver/lung metastasis in this model. Western blotting and immunohistochemical analysis indicated a reduction of CXCR4, NF-kappaB, and Ki67 in tumor tissues. Computational analysis suggested PXR agonism and FXR antagonism as targets of ZGA. In conclusion, CXCR4 was found to be overexpressed in majority of patient-derived TNBC tissues and ZGA abrogated the growth of TNBC tumors by partly targeting the CXCL12/CXCR4 signaling axis.
37327120 | Hematopoietic Stem Cell Mobilization for Allogeneic Stem Cell Transplantation by Motixafortide, a Novel CXCR4 Inhibitor. Peripheral blood stem cells are the most common source of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) used for hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT). HSPC mobilization with G-CSF +/- plerixafor results in suboptimal HSPC yields in up to 30% of patients, despite multiple injections and leukapheresis procedures (LP). We evaluated motixafortide (BL-8040), a high-affinity, long-acting CXCR4 inhibitor with rapid mobilizing kinetics, in a multi-center, open-label, single-arm, 2-part, Phase II study to mobilize HSPCs in allogeneic HCT donors (NCT02639559). The primary endpoint was the efficacy of 1 dose of motixafortide to mobilize greater than or equal to 2.0x10^6 CD34+ cells/kg within 2 LPs. Twenty-five donor-recipient pairs were enrolled. Motixafortide was well-tolerated with 22/24 (92%) evaluable donors meeting the primary endpoint, including 11/11 donors receiving motixafortide at 1.25mg/kg. Engraftment and GVHD rates were comparable to historical data. Motixafortide preferentially mobilized large numbers of multipotent HSPCs and a smaller proportion of CD34+ plasmacytoid dendritic cell precursors with high CD123 expression. Motixafortide induced pan-mobilization of all major myeloid and lymphoid subsets, with maximum relative changes in plasmacytoid/myeloid dendritic cells, B-cells, basophils, CD8 T-cells and classical monocytes. In conclusion, a single injection of motixafortide results in rapid and sustained mobilization of multipotent HSPCs for allogeneic HCT.
37342909 | Organized B cell sites in cartilaginous fishes reveal the evolutionary foundation of germinal centers. The absence of germinal centers (GCs) in cartilaginous fishes lies at odds with data showing that nurse sharks can produce robust antigen-specific responses and affinity mature their B cell repertoires. To investigate this apparent incongruity, we performed RNA sequencing on single nuclei, allowing us to characterize the cell types present in the nurse shark spleen, and RNAscope to provide in situ cellular resolution of key marker gene expression following immunization with R-phycoerythrin (PE). We tracked PE to the splenic follicles where it co-localizes with CXCR5high centrocyte-like B cells and a population of putative T follicular helper (Tfh) cells, surrounded by a peripheral ring of Ki67+ AID+ CXCR4+ centroblast-like B cells. Further, we reveal selection of mutations in B cell clones dissected from these follicles. We propose that the B cell sites identified here represent the evolutionary foundation of GCs, dating back to the jawed vertebrate ancestor.
37457445 | CXCR4-Targeted Necrosis-Inducing Peptidomimetic for Treating Breast Cancer. Triple-negative breast cancer is an aggressive subtype with a high recurrence rate, potential for metastasis, and a poor prognosis. The chemokine receptor, CXCR4, is a promising molecular target in breast cancer therapy. Here, we have developed a CXCR4-targeted antitumor peptidomimetic (named CTCE-KLAK), which is a fusion of the CXCR4 receptor antagonist CTCE-9908 and the D-form of proapoptotic peptide (KLAKLAK)2, for the treatment of breast cancer. First, we investigated the in vitro antitumor activity of CTCE-KLAK against various breast cancer cells and noncancerous mammary epithelial cells. CTCE-KLAK showed cell-selective cytotoxicity and induced rapid necrotic cell death in breast cancer cells but not in normal cells. In contrast, unconjugated peptides such as the carboxylate analogues of CTCE-9908 and D(KLAKLAK)2 were not cytotoxic to these cells. The tumor selectivity of CTCE-KLAK for cytotoxic activity depends on its internalization into tumor cells. There was no cleavage of caspase-3, caspase-7, or PARP1 in CTCE-KLAK-treated cells. In addition, cell death by CTCE-KLAK was not prevented by z-VAD-fmk, a pan-caspase inhibitor that inhibits cisplatin-induced cell death. These data indicate that the CTCE-KLAK conjugate is a cell-selective inducer of necrosis. Furthermore, we evaluated the in vivo antitumor activity of CTCE-KLAK in the 4T1 mouse metastatic breast cancer model. Intravenous administration of CTCE-KLAK significantly inhibited tumor growth and lung metastasis. Together, these findings suggest that the necrosis-inducing peptidomimetic CTCE-KLAK is a promising CXCR4-targeted agent for treating triple-negative breast cancer.
37523265 | Interplay between CXCR4 and CCR2 regulates bone marrow exit of dendritic cell progenitors. Conventional dendritic cells (cDCs) are found in most tissues and play a key role in initiation of immunity. cDCs require constant replenishment from progenitors called pre-cDCs that develop in the bone marrow (BM) and enter the blood circulation to seed all tissues. This process can be markedly accelerated in response to inflammation (emergency cDCpoiesis). Here, we identify two populations of BM pre-cDC marked by differential expression of CXCR4. We show that CXCR4lo cells constitute the migratory pool of BM pre-cDCs, which exits the BM and can be rapidly mobilized during challenge. We further show that exit of CXCR4lo pre-cDCs from BM at steady state is partially dependent on CCR2 and that CCR2 upregulation in response to type I IFN receptor signaling markedly increases efflux during infection with influenza A virus. Our results highlight a fine balance between retention and efflux chemokine cues that regulates steady-state and emergency cDCpoiesis.
37735875 | Expressing CXCR4 in CAR-T cells Suppresses MDSCs Recruitment via STAT3/NF-kappaB/SDF-1alpha axis to enhance Anti-tumor Efficacy against Pancreatic Cancer. Claudin18.2 (CLDN18.2)-specific chimeric antigen receptor (CAR-T) cells displayed limited efficacy in CLDN18.2 positive pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). Strategies are needed to improve the trafficking capacity of CLDN18.2-specific CAR-T cells. PDAC has a unique microenvironment that consists of abundant cancer- associated fibroblasts (CAFs), which could secrete stromal cell-derived factor 1alpha (SDF-1alpha), the ligand of CXCR4. Then we constructed and explored CLDN18.2-targeted CAR-T cells with CXCR4 co-expression in treating immunocompetent mouse models of PDAC. The results indicated that CXCR4 could promote the infiltration of CAR-T cells and enhance their efficacy in vivo. Mechanistically, the activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3(STAT3) signaling was impaired in CXCR4 CAR-T cells, thereof reduced the release of inflammatory factors, such as TNF-alpha, IL-6 and IL-17A. Then, the less release of inflammatory factors suppressed SDF-1alpha secretion in CAFs via NF-kappaB pathway. Therefore, the decreased secretion of SDF-1alpha in feedback decreased the migration of myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) in tumor sites. Overall, our study demonstrated that CXCR4 CAR-T cells could traffic more into tumor sites and meanwhile suppress MDSCs migration via STAT3/NF-kappaB/SDF-1alpha axis, to obtained better efficacy in CLDN18.2 positive pancreatic cancer. Our findings provide a theoretical rationale for CXCR4 CAR-T cell therapy in PDAC.
37767160 | Targeting phosphoglycerate kinases by tatridin A, a natural sesquiterpenoid endowed with anti-cancer activity, using a proteomic platform. Tatridin A (TatA) is a germacrane sesquiterpenoid containing one E-double bond and one Z-double bond in its 10-membered ring, which is fused to a 3-methylene-dihydrofuran-2-one moiety. Tatridin A bioactivity has been poorly investigated despite its interesting chemical structure. Here, a functional proteomic platform was adapted to disclose its most reliable targets in leukemia monocytic cells, and phosphoglycerate kinases were recognized as the most affine enzymes. Through a combination of limited proteolysis and molecular docking, it has been discovered that tatridin A interacts with the active domains of phosphoglycerate kinase 1, altering its hinge region, and it can be accountable for tatridin A inhibition potency on enzyme activity. A more detailed tatridin A biological profile showed that it is also fully active against gastric cancer cells, downregulating the mRNA levels of chemokine receptor 4 and beta-catenin and inhibiting the invasiveness of living KATO III cells as a direct consequence of phosphoglycerate kinase 1 antagonism.
37940118 | Development of N-Terminally Modified Variants of the CXCR4-Antagonistic Peptide EPI-X4 for Enhanced Plasma Stability. EPI-X4, a natural peptide CXCR4 antagonist, shows potential for treating inflammation and cancer, but its short plasma stability limits its clinical application. We aimed to improve the plasma stability of EPI-X4 analogues without compromising CXCR4 antagonism. Our findings revealed that only the peptide N-terminus is prone to degradation. Consequently, incorporating d-amino acids or acetyl groups in this region enhanced peptide stability in plasma. Notably, EPI-X4 leads 5, 27, and 28 not only retained their CXCR4 binding and antagonism but also remained stable in plasma for over 8 h. Molecular dynamic simulations showed that these modified analogues bind similarly to CXCR4 as the original peptide. To further increase their systemic half-lives, we conjugated these stabilized analogues with large polymers and albumin binders. These advances highlight the potential of the optimized EPI-X4 analogues as promising CXCR4-targeted therapeutics and set the stage for more detailed preclinical assessments.
38095299 | CXCL12 promotes the crossing of retinal ganglion cell axons at the optic chiasm. Binocular vision requires the segregation of retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axons extending from the retina into the ipsilateral and contralateral optic tracts. RGC axon segregation occurs at the optic chiasm, which forms at the ventral diencephalon midline. Using expression analyses, retinal explants and genetically modified mice, we demonstrate that CXCL12 (SDF1) is required for axon segregation at the optic chiasm. CXCL12 is expressed by the meninges bordering the optic pathway, and CXCR4 by both ipsilaterally and contralaterally projecting RGCs. CXCL12 or ventral diencephalon meninges potently promoted axon outgrowth from both ipsilaterally and contralaterally projecting RGCs. Further, a higher proportion of axons projected ipsilaterally in mice lacking CXCL12 or its receptor CXCR4 compared with wild-type mice as a result of misrouting of presumptive contralaterally specified RGC axons. Although RGCs also expressed the alternative CXCL12 receptor ACKR3, the optic chiasm developed normally in mice lacking ACKR3. Our data support a model whereby meningeal-derived CXCL12 helps drive axon growth from CXCR4-expressing RGCs towards the diencephalon midline, enabling contralateral axon growth. These findings further our understanding of the molecular and cellular mechanisms controlling optic pathway development.
38131305 | Biological and mutational analyses of CXCR4-antagonist interactions and design of new antagonistic analogs. The chemokine receptor CXCR4 has become an attractive therapeutic target for HIV-1 infection, hematopoietic stem cell mobilization, and cancer metastasis. A wide variety of synthetic antagonists of CXCR4 have been developed and studied for a growing list of clinical applications. To compare the biological effects of different antagonists on CXCR4 functions and their common and/or distinctive molecular interactions with the receptor, we conducted head-to-head comparative cell-based biological and mutational analyses of the interactions with CXCR4 of eleven reported antagonists, including HC4319, DV3, DV1, DV1 dimer, V1, vMIP-II, CVX15, LY2510924, IT1t, AMD3100, and AMD11070 that were representative of different structural classes of D-peptides, L-peptide, natural chemokine, cyclic peptides, and small molecules. The results were rationalized by molecular modeling of CXCR4-antagonist interactions from which the common as well as different receptor binding sites of these antagonists were derived, revealing a number of important residues such as W94, D97, H113, D171, D262, and E288, mostly of negative charge. To further examine this finding, we designed and synthesized new antagonistic analogs by adding positively charged residues Arg to a D-peptide template to enhance the postulated charge-charge interactions. The newly designed analogs displayed significantly increased binding to CXCR4, which supports the notion that negatively charged residues of CXCR4 can engage in interactions with moieties of positive charge of the antagonistic ligands. The results from these mutational, modeling and new analog design studies shed new insight into the molecular mechanisms of different types of antagonists in recognizing CXCR4 and guide the development of new therapeutic agents.
38146903 | Nasopharyngeal neutrophilic-retention signatures could predict disease progression in early SARS-CoV-2 infection. The nasopharynx is the initial site of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection, and neutrophils play a critical role in preventing viral transmission into the lower airways or lungs during the early phases of infection. However, neutrophil dynamics, functional signatures, and predictive roles in the nasopharynx of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) patients have not yet been elucidated. In this study, we carried out RNA sequencing of nasopharyngeal swabs from a cohort of COVID-19 patients with mild, moderate, severe outcomes and healthy donors as controls. Over 32.7% of the differentially expressed genes associated with COVID-19 severity were neutrophil-related, including those involved in migration, neutrophil extracellular traps formation, and inflammasome activation. Multicohort single-cell RNA sequencing analysis further confirmed these findings and identified a population of neutrophils expressing Vacuolar-type ATPase (V-ATPase) and the chemokine receptor CXCR4 in the nasopharynx. This population of neutrophils preferentially expressed pro-inflammatory genes relevant to phagosomal maturation as well as local reactive oxygen species and reactive nitrogen species production in the nasopharynx of patients with severe outcomes. A four-gene panel defined as a neutrophil signature associated with COVID-19 progression (NSAP) was identified as an early diagnostic predictor of severe COVID-19, which potentially distinguished severe patients from mild cases with influenza, respiratory syncytial virus, dengue virus, or hepatitis B virus infection. NSAP is mainly expressed on CXCR4high neutrophils and exhibits a significant association with the cell fraction of this neutrophil population. This study highlights novel potential therapeutic targets or diagnostic tools for predicting patients at a higher risk of severe outcomes.
38315878 | Biomarker analysis of the ASPEN study comparing zanubrutinib to ibrutinib in patients with Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia. The phase 3 ASPEN trial (NCT03053440) compared Bruton tyrosine kinase inhibitors (BTKi), zanubrutinib and ibrutinib, in patients with Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia (WM). Post-hoc biomarker analysis was performed using next-generation sequencing on pretreatment bone marrow samples from 98 zanubrutinib-treated and 92 ibrutinib-treated patients with mutated (MUT) MYD88 and 20 zanubrutinib-treated patients with wild-type (WT) MYD88. Of 329 mutations in 52 genes, mutations in CXCR4 (25.7%), TP53 (24.8%), ARID1A (15.7%), and TERT (9.0%) were most common. TP53MUT, ARID1AMUT, and TERTMUT were associated with higher rates of CXCR4MUT (P<0.05). Patients with CXCR4MUT (frameshift [FS] or nonsense [NS] mutations) had lower very good partial response and complete response rate (VGPR+CR) (17.0% vs 37.2%, P=0.020) and longer time to response (11.1 vs 8.4 months) than CXCR4WT BTKi-treated patients. CXCR4NS was associated with inferior progression-free survival (PFS; HR=3.39, P=0.017) in ibrutinib-treated, but not zanubrutinib-treated patients (HR=0.67, P=0.598), but VGPR+CR rates were similar between treatment groups (14.3% vs 15.4%). Compared to ibrutinib, zanubrutinib-treated patients with CXCR4NS had a favorable major response rate (MRR; 85.7% vs 53.8%, P=0.09) and PFS (HR=0.30, P=0.093). In patients with TP53MUT, significantly lower MRR was observed in ibrutinib- (63.6% vs 85.7%, P=0.04) but not zanubrutinib-treated patients (80.8% vs 81.9%, P=0.978). In TP53MUT, compared to ibrutinib, zanubrutinib-treated patients had higher VGPR+CR (34.6% vs 13.6%, P<0.05), numerically improved MRR (80.8% vs 63.6%, P=0.11), and longer PFS (not reached vs 44.2 months, HR=0.66, P=0.37). Collectively, WM patients with CXCR4MUT or TP53MUT had worse prognosis compared to patients with WT alleles and zanubrutinib led to better clinical outcomes.
38332341 | Volumetric Parameters Derived from CXCR4-Directed PET/CT Predict Outcome in Patients with Gastrointestinal Neuroendocrine Carcinomas. BACKGROUND: Gastro-entero-pancreatic neuroendocrine carcinomas (GEP-NECs) are an aggressive subgroup of neuroendocrine neoplasms (NENs). In patients affected with NEN, there is a growing body of evidence that increased C-X-C motif chemokine receptor (CXCR4) expression is linked to decreasing overall survival (OS) in an ex-vivo setting. Thus, we aimed to determine whether the in-vivo-derived CXCR4-directed whole-body PET signal can also determine GEP-NEC patients with shorter OS. METHODS: We retrospectively included 16 patients with histologically proven GEP-NEC, who underwent CXCR4-directed PET/CT for staging and therapy planning. We assessed maximum, peak, and mean standardized uptake values as well as whole-body tumor volume (TV) and total-lesion uptake (TLU = SUVmean x TV) using a semi-automatic segmentation tool with a 50% threshold. Association of PET-based biomarkers and OS or radiographic progression-free survival (rPFS; according to RECIST 1.1 criteria) was analyzed using univariable and multivariable cox regression. RESULTS: Median OS and rPFS was 7.5 and 7 months, respectively. A significant correlation between TV and TLU was found for OS (TV: hazard ratio (HR) 1.007 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.000-1.014, p = 0.0309; TLU: HR 1.002 95% CI 1.000-1.003, p = 0.0350) and rPFS (TV: HR 1.010 95% CI 1.002-1.021; p = 0.0275; TLU: HR 1.002 95% CI 1.000-1.004, p = 0.0329), respectively. No significant correlation with OS or rPFS was found for non-volumetric parameters (p > 0.4). TV remained a significant predictive marker for OS and rPFS in multivariable analysis (OS: HR 1.012 95%, CI 1.003-1.022, p = 0.0084; rPFS: HR 1.009, 95% CI 0.9999-1.019, p = 0.0491), whereas TLU remained only prognostic for OS (HR 1.009, 95% CI 0.9999-1.019, p = 0.0194) but narrowly failed significance for rPFS (p = 0.0559). CONCLUSION: In-vivo assessment of CXCR4 PET-derived volumetric parameters is predictive for outcome of patients with GEP-NEC and could be used as a risk stratification tool, which detects patients prone to early progression.
38346795 | Pharmacological characterization and radiolabeling of VUF15485, a high-affinity small-molecule agonist for the atypical chemokine receptor ACKR3. Atypical chemokine receptor 3 (ACKR3 is considered to be an interesting drug target. In this study we report on the synthesis, pharmacological characterization and radiolabeling of VUF15485, a new small-molecule agonist. VUF15485 binds with nanomolar affinity (pIC50 = 8.3) to human ACKR3, as measured in [125I]CXCL12 competition experiments. Moreover, in a BRET-based beta-arrestin2 recruitment assay VUF15485 acts as an ACKR3 agonist with high potency (pEC50 = 7.6) and shows a similar extent of receptor activation compared to CXCL12 when using a newly developed, FRET-based ACKR3 conformational sensor. Moreover, the ACKR3 agonist VUF15485 was tested against a chemokine receptor panel (agonist and antagonist mode) and proves to be selective for ACKR3. VUF15485 was subsequently labeled with tritium at one of its methoxy groups affording [3H]VUF15485. The small-molecule agonist radioligand binds saturably and with high affinity to human ACKR3 (Kd = 8.2 nM). [3H]VUF15485 shows rapid binding kinetics and consequently a short residence time (RT < 2 min) for its binding to ACKR3. Displacement of [3H]VUF15485 binding to membranes of HEK293T cells, transiently expressing ACKR3, with a number of CXCR3, CXCR4 or ACKR3 small-molecule ligands confirmed the ACKR3 profile of the [3H]VUF15485 binding site. Interestingly, the chemokine ligands CXCL11 and CXCL12 are not able to displace the binding of [3H]VUF15485 to ACKR3. The radiolabeled VUF15485 was subsequently used to evaluate its binding pocket. Site-directed mutagenesis and docking studies using a recently solved cryo-EM structure propose VUF15485 to bind in the major and the minor binding pocket of ACKR3. Significance Statement The atypical chemokine receptor ACKR3 is considered an interesting drug target in relation to e.g. cancer. The study reports on new chemical biology tools for ACKR3, i.e. a new agonist that can also be radiolabelled and a new ACKR3 conformational sensor, that both can be used to directly study the interaction of ACKR3 ligands with the GPCR.
11477070 | DJ-1 positively regulates the androgen receptor by impairing the binding of PIASx alpha to the receptor. DJ-1 was first identified as a novel candidate of the oncogene product that transformed mouse NIH3T3 cells in cooperation with an activated ras. Later DJ-1 was also found to be an infertility-related protein that was reduced in rat sperm treated with sperm toxicants that cause infertility in rats. To determine the functions of DJ-1, cDNAs encoding DJ-1-binding proteins were screened by the yeast two-hybrid method. Of several proteins identified, PIASx alpha/ARIP3, a modulator of androgen receptor (AR), was first characterized as the DJ-1-binding protein in this study. DJ-1 directly bound to the AR-binding region of PIASx alpha by an in vitro coimmunoprecipitation assay and also bound to PIASx alpha in human 293T cells. Both proteins were co-localized in the nuclei. PIASx alpha inhibited the AR transcription activity in a dose-dependent manner in cotransfected monkey CV1 cells with an androgen responsive element-luciferase reporter. Introduction of DJ-1 into CV1 cells in a state of inhibition of AR activity by PIASx alpha restored AR transcription activity by absorbing PIASx alpha from the AR-PIASx alpha complex, while a DJ-1 mutant harboring an amino acid substitution at number 130 from lysine to arginine did not restore it. These results indicate that DJ-1 is a positive regulator of the androgen receptor.
11893729 | Androgen receptor-interacting protein 3 and other PIAS proteins cooperate with glucocorticoid receptor-interacting protein 1 in steroid receptor-dependent signaling. Androgen receptor (AR)-interacting protein 3 (ARIP3/PIASxalpha) is a coregulator capable of modulating transcriptional activity of various steroid receptors. We have characterized functional regions of ARIP3 and studied its interaction with the glucocorticoid receptor (GR)-interacting protein 1 (GRIP1). We find that the potential zinc-binding domain is critical for ARIP3 to function as a coactivator; the deletion of amino acids 347-418 or the mutation of the conserved cysteines 385 and 388 to serines converts ARIP3 to a transcriptional repressor from AR-dependent minimal promoters and abolishes its ability to activate GR. By contrast, mutations in the two LXXLL motifs of ARIP3 have relatively minor effects on its ability to regulate AR or GR function. ARIP3 is able to interact with different regions of GRIP1, but the strongest interaction is detected with the C-terminal region (amino acids 1122-1462) of GRIP1. The interaction of ARIP3 with the latter GRIP1 domain or full-length GRIP1 and the ability of ARIP3 to cooperate with GRIP1 in the regulation of AR- or GR-dependent transcription are dependent on the ARIP3 zinc-binding region. We also find a strong synergism between GRIP1 and two other PIAS family members, Miz1 and PIAS1. Taken together, our results suggest that PIAS proteins and GRIP1 interact functionally in transcriptional regulation.
17623776 | PIASxbeta is a key regulator of osterix transcriptional activity and matrix mineralization in osteoblasts. We recently reported that tensile stress induces osteoblast differentiation and osteogenesis in the mouse calvarial suture in vitro. Using this experimental system, we identified PIASxbeta, a splice isoform of Pias2, as one of the genes most highly upregulated by tensile stress. Further study using cell culture revealed that this upregulation was transient and was accompanied by upregulation of other differentiation markers, including osterix, whereas expression of Runx2 was unaffected. Runx2 and osterix are the two master proteins controlling osteoblast differentiation, with Runx2 being upstream of osterix. Targeted knockdown of PIASxbeta by small interfering RNA (siRNA) markedly suppressed osteoblastic differentiation and matrix mineralization, whereas transient overexpression of PIASxbeta caused the exact opposite effects. Regardless of PIASxbeta expression level, Runx2 expression remained constant. Reporter assays demonstrated that osterix enhanced its own promoter activity, which was further stimulated by PIASxbeta but not by its sumoylation-defective mutant. NFATc1 and NFATc3 additionally increased osterix transcriptional activity when co-transfected with PIASxbeta. Because osterix has no consensus motif for sumoylation, other proteins are probably involved in the PIASxbeta-mediated activation and NFAT proteins may be among such targets. This study provides the first line of evidence that PIASxbeta is indispensable for osteoblast differentiation and matrix mineralization, and that this signaling molecule is located between Runx2 and osterix.
20408817 | SUMO modification regulates the transcriptional activity of XBP1. The UPR (unfolded protein response), a cellular defence mechanism against misfolded protein accumulation in the ER (endoplasmic reticulum), is associated with many human diseases such as aging, cancer and diabetes. XBP1 (X-box-binding protein 1), a key transcription factor of the UPR, is critical in maintaining ER homoeostasis. Nevertheless, the mechanism by which XBP1 transcriptional activity is regulated remains unexplored. In the present study we show that XBP1s, the active spliced form of XBP1 protein, is SUMOylated, mainly by PIAS2 [protein inhibitor of activated STAT (signal transducer and activator of transcription) 2] at two lysine residues located in the C-terminal transactivation domain. Ablation of these SUMOylation events significantly enhances the transcriptional activity of XBP1s towards UPR target genes. Thus our results reveal an unexpected role for SUMO (small ubiquitin-related modifier) in the regulation of UPR activation and ER homeostasis.
20661221 | PIASy stimulates HIF1alpha SUMOylation and negatively regulates HIF1alpha activity in response to hypoxia. Hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (HIF1alpha) is a crucial regulator of the cellular response to hypoxia through its regulation of genes that control erythropoiesis, angiogenesis and anaerobic metabolism. We have previously shown that HIF1alpha stability is regulated by SUMOylation under the hypoxic condition. However, how HIF1alpha became SUMOylated during hypoxia is still unknown. In this study we identify PIASy as a specific E3 ligase for hypoxia-induced HIF1alpha SUMOylation. Hypoxia promotes translocation of HIF1alpha to the nucleus to facilitate its binding to PIASy, enabling the conjugation of HIF1alpha by SUMO1. We further show that PIASy negatively regulates hypoxia-induced HIF1alpha stability and transactivation. Knocking down PIASy increases the angiogenic activity of endothelial cells. Moreover, we show an inverse relationship between expression of PIASy and tumor angiogenesis in colon cancer. Thus, we define an important role of PIASy in hypoxia signaling through promoting HIF1alpha SUMOylation.
21199872 | PIASy inhibits virus-induced and interferon-stimulated transcription through distinct mechanisms. The protein inhibitor of activated STAT (PIAS) family proteins regulates innate immune responses by controlling transcription induced by Toll-like receptor, RIG-I-like receptor signaling, and JAK/STAT pathways. Here, we show that PIASy negatively regulates type I interferon (IFN) transcription. Virus infection led to enhanced type I IFN induction in PIASy null cells, and conversely PIASy overexpression reduced IFN transcription. A mutation in the LXXLL motif of the SAP domain abolished inhibition of IFN-stimulated gene expression but did not affect virus or Toll-like receptor/RIG-I-like receptor-stimulated IFN transcription, indicating that PIASy employs distinct mechanisms to inhibit virus-induced and IFN-stimulated transcription. SUMO E3 activity was not required for PIASy inhibition of IFN transcription; however, PIASy relied on the SUMO modification mechanism to inhibit IFN transcription, because the activity of the SUMO-interacting motif was required for inhibition, and knockdown of SUMO E2 enzyme UBC9 decreased inhibitory activity of PIASy. Our results demonstrate that PIASy negatively regulates both IFN transcription and IFN-stimulated gene expression through multiple mechanisms utilizing the function of different domains.
21447800 | c-MYC suppresses BIN1 to release poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1: a mechanism by which cancer cells acquire cisplatin resistance. Cancer cells acquire resistance to DNA-damaging therapeutic agents, such as cisplatin, but the genetic mechanisms through which this occurs remain unclear. We show that the c-MYC oncoprotein increases cisplatin resistance by decreasing production of the c-MYC inhibitor BIN1 (bridging integrator 1). The sensitivity of cancer cells to cisplatin depended on BIN1 abundance, regardless of the p53 gene status. BIN1 bound to the automodification domain of and suppressed the catalytic activity of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1, EC 2.4.2.30), an enzyme essential for DNA repair, thereby reducing the stability of the genome. The inhibition of PARP1 activity was sufficient for BIN1 to suppress c-MYC-mediated transactivation, the G(2)-M transition, and cisplatin resistance. Conversely, overexpressed c-MYC repressed BIN1 expression by blocking its activation by the MYC-interacting zinc finger transcription factor 1 (MIZ1) and thereby released PARP1 activity. Thus, a c-MYC-mediated positive feedback loop may contribute to cancer cell resistance to cisplatin.
21624955 | PKCzeta mediates disturbed flow-induced endothelial apoptosis via p53 SUMOylation. Atherosclerosis is readily observed in regions of blood vessels where disturbed blood flow (d-flow) is known to occur. A positive correlation between protein kinase C zeta (PKCzeta) activation and d-flow has been reported, but the exact role of d-flow-mediated PKCzeta activation in atherosclerosis remains unclear. We tested the hypothesis that PKCzeta activation by d-flow induces endothelial cell (EC) apoptosis by regulating p53. We found that d-flow-mediated peroxynitrite (ONOO(-)) increased PKCzeta activation, which subsequently induced p53 SUMOylation, p53-Bcl-2 binding, and EC apoptosis. Both d-flow and ONOO(-) increased the association of PKCzeta with protein inhibitor of activated STATy (PIASy) via the Siz/PIAS-RING domain (amino acids 301-410) of PIASy, and overexpression of this domain of PIASy disrupted the PKCzeta-PIASy interaction and PKCzeta-mediated p53 SUMOylation. En face confocal microscopy revealed increases in nonnuclear p53 expression, nitrotyrosine staining, and apoptosis in aortic EC located in d-flow areas in wild-type mice, but these effects were significantly decreased in p53(-/-) mice. We propose a novel mechanism for p53 SUMOylation mediated by the PKCzeta-PIASy interaction during d-flow-mediated EC apoptosis, which has potential relevance to early events of atherosclerosis.
21931855 | Complex SUMO-1 regulation of cardiac transcription factor Nkx2-5. Reversible post-translational protein modifications such as SUMOylation add complexity to cardiac transcriptional regulation. The homeodomain transcription factor Nkx2-5/Csx is essential for heart specification and morphogenesis. It has been previously suggested that SUMOylation of lysine 51 (K51) of Nkx2-5 is essential for its DNA binding and transcriptional activation. Here, we confirm that SUMOylation strongly enhances Nkx2-5 transcriptional activity and that residue K51 of Nkx2-5 is a SUMOylation target. However, in a range of cultured cell lines we find that a point mutation of K51 to arginine (K51R) does not affect Nkx2-5 activity or DNA binding, suggesting the existence of additional Nkx2-5 SUMOylated residues. Using biochemical assays, we demonstrate that Nkx2-5 is SUMOylated on at least one additional site, and this is the predominant site in cardiac cells. The second site is either non-canonical or a \shifting\ site, as mutation of predicted consensus sites and indeed every individual lysine in the context of the K51R mutation failed to impair Nkx2-5 transcriptional synergism with SUMO, or its nuclear localization and DNA binding. We also observe SUMOylation of Nkx2-5 cofactors, which may be critical to Nkx2-5 regulation. Our data reveal highly complex regulatory mechanisms driven by SUMOylation to modulate Nkx2-5 activity.
21961235 | [Screening PIAS2-interacting proteins in the mouse using the yeast two-hybrid system]. OBJECTIVE: To screen and identify PIAS2-interacting proteins from the mouse spermatogonial cDNA library using the yeast two-hybrid system, and to investigate the action mechanism of PIAS2 in spermatogenesis. METHODS: With pGBKT7-PIAS2 as a bait plasmid, the positive clones interacting with pGBKT7-PIAS2 were screened from the mouse spermatogonial cDNA library, the inserted fragments were sequenced and underwent bioinformatic analysis, and their interaction was verified using the yeast two-hybrid system. RESULTS: Through screening, sequencing, homology analysis and yeast two-hybrid verification, we obtained 8 different candidate proteins interacting with PIAS2, including Cyfip2, Psmb3, Nmel, nischarin, Ints10, Nsun5, Gnb211 and Ndufaf3. CONCLUSION: Eight different genes were successfully obtained using the yeast two-hybrid system, and their encoding proteins interacted with PIAS2, which might be related with male fertility regulation. Our findings have offered some new clues to the action mechanism of PIAS2 in spermatogenesis.
22082260 | Analysis of oxygen/glucose-deprivation-induced changes in SUMO3 conjugation using SILAC-based quantitative proteomics. Transient cerebral ischemia dramatically activates small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO2/3) conjugation. In cells exposed to 6 h of transient oxygen/glucose deprivation (OGD), a model of ischemia, SUMOylation increases profoundly between 0 and 30 min following re-oxygenation. To elucidate the effect of transient OGD on SUMO conjugation of target proteins, we exposed neuroblastoma B35 cells expressing HA-SUMO3 to transient OGD and used stable isotope labeling with amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) to quantify OGD-induced changes in levels of specific SUMOylated proteins. Lysates from control and OGD-treated cells were mixed equally, and HA-tagged proteins were immunoprecipitated and analyzed by 1D-SDS-PAGE-LC-MS/MS. We identified 188 putative SUMO3-conjugated proteins, including numerous transcription factors and coregulators, and PIAS2 and PIAS4 SUMO ligases, of which 22 were increased or decreased more than +-2-fold. In addition to SUMO3, the levels of protein-conjugated SUMO1 and SUMO2, as well as ubiquitin, were all increased. Importantly, protein ubiquitination induced by OGD was completely blocked by gene silencing of SUMO2/3. Collectively, these results suggest several mechanisms for OGD-modulated SUMOylation, point to a number of signaling pathways that may be targets of SUMO-based signaling and recovery from ischemic stress, and demonstrate a tightly controlled crosstalk between the SUMO and ubiquitin conjugation pathways.
22210188 | Interaction of protein inhibitor of activated STAT 2 (PIAS2) with receptor of activated C kinase 1, RACK1. In this study, the evolutionarily conserved intracellular adaptor protein, receptor of activated C kinase 1 (RACK1) was identified as a novel interaction partner of protein inhibitor of activated STAT 2 (PIAS2) using a yeast two-hybrid screening system. The direct interaction and co-localization of RACK1 with PIAS2 was confirmed by immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence staining analysis, respectively. The 5th to 7th Trp-Asp 40 (5-7 WD40) repeats of RACK1 were identified as the minimal domain required for interaction with PIAS2 by deletion analysis. Furthermore, multiple PIAS2-domains, particularly the 'PINIT' and RLD domains, bind the RACK1 5-7 WD40 domain.
22539679 | Endometrial receptivity defects and impaired implantation in diabetic NOD mice. Implantation failure is a major hurdle to a successful pregnancy. The high rate of postimplantation fetal loss in nonobese diabetic (NOD) mice is believed to be related to an abnormal decidual production of interferon (IFN)gamma. To address whether diabetes alters the natural events associated with successful implantation, certain morphological and molecular features of uterine receptivity in diabetic NOD (dNOD) mice were examined in normally mated pregnancy and in concanavalin A (ConA)-induced pseudopregnancy. As opposed to normoglycemic NOD (cNOD) mice, dNOD mice expressed retarded maturation of their uterine pinopodes and overexpressed MUC1 mucin at implantation sites (P < 0.001). Uterine production of leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) and phosphorylation of uterine NFkappaBp65 and STAT3-Ty705 were found to be low (P < 0.01) during Day 4.5 postcoitum, whereas IFNgamma was aberrantly overexpressed. Loss of temporal regulation of progesterone receptor A (PR A) and PR B, together with aberrantly increased expression of the protein inhibitor of activated STAT-y (PIASy) (P < 0.01) and reduced recruitment (P < 0.01) of the latter to nuclear progesterone receptor sites were prominent features of decidualization failure occurring at peri-implantation in dNOD mice. In conclusion, the aberrant expression of endometrial IFNgamma in dNOD mice is associated with a nonreceptive endometrial milieu contributing to peri-implantation embryo loss in type 1 diabetes.
22685230 | Moloney murine leukemia virus integrase and reverse transcriptase interact with PML proteins. Pull-down assay and co-immunoprecipitation of cell extracts in which the integrase or reverse transcriptase of Moloney murine leukemia virus was transiently expressed showed that both enzymes interacted with PML proteins. In infected cells, interaction between the integrase and PML was also observed. Transient expression of PIASy and SUMO proteins facilitated SUMOylation of the integrase but had no apparent effects on the interaction with PML. A FLAG-tagged integrase co-localized with PML protein possibly in the PML body. Knockdown of PML by small interfering RNA resulted in reduced viral cDNA levels and integration efficiency. This suggested that PML proteins activated reverse transcription.
23515314 | Protein inhibitors of activated STAT (Pias1 and Piasy) differentially regulate pituitary homeobox 2 (PITX2) transcriptional activity. Protein inhibitors of activated STAT (Pias) proteins can act independent of sumoylation to modulate the activity of transcription factors and Pias proteins interacting with transcription factors can either activate or repress their activity. Pias proteins are expressed in many tissues and cells during development and we asked if Pias proteins regulated the pituitary homeobox 2 (PITX2) homeodomain protein, which modulates developmental gene expression. Piasy and Pias1 proteins are expressed during craniofacial/tooth development and directly interact and differentially regulate PITX2 transcriptional activity. Piasy and Pias1 are co-expressed in craniofacial tissues with PITX2. Yeast two-hybrid, co-immunoprecipitation and pulldown experiments demonstrate Piasy and Pias1 interactions with the PITX2 protein. Piasy interacts with the PITX2 C-terminal tail to attenuate its transcriptional activity. In contrast, Pias1 interacts with the PITX2 C-terminal tail to increase PITX2 transcriptional activity. The E3 ligase activity associated with the RING domain in Piasy is not required for the attenuation of PITX2 activity, however, the RING domain of Pias1 is required for enhanced PITX2 transcriptional activity. Bimolecular fluorescence complementation assays reveal PITX2 interactions with Piasy and Pias1 in the nucleus. Piasy represses the synergistic activation of PITX2 with interacting co-factors and Piasy represses Pias1 activation of PITX2 transcriptional activity. In contrast, Pias1 did not affect the synergistic interaction of PITX2 with transcriptional co-factors. Last, we demonstrate that Pias proteins form a complex with PITX2 and Lef-1, and PITX2 and beta-catenin. Lef-1, beta-catenin, and Pias interactions with PITX2 provide new molecular mechanisms for the regulation of PITX2 transcriptional activity and the activity of Pias proteins.
23704280 | A SUMOylation-dependent pathway regulates SIRT1 transcription and lung cancer metastasis. BACKGROUND: Epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) plays a pivotal role in lung cancer metastasis. The class III deacetylase sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) possesses both pro- and anticarcinogenic properties. The role of SIRT1 in lung cancer EMT is largely undefined. METHODS: The effect of SIRT1 on migration of lung cancer cells was evaluated by wound healing assay in vitro and metastasis assay in nude mice in vivo. Protein expression in human lung cancers and cultured lung cancer cells was assessed by western blotting and immunohistochemistry. Interaction between protein and DNA was measured by chromatin immunoprecipitation assay. SIRT1 promoter activity was determined by reporter assay. RESULTS: SIRT1 activation antagonized migration of lung cancer cells by suppressing EMT in vitro. Activation of SIRT1 by resveratrol also statistically significantly hampered (by 68.33%; P < .001, two-sided test) lung cancer cell metastasis in vivo. Hypoxia repressed SIRT1 transcription through promoting the competition between Sp1 and HIC1 on the SIRT1 proximal promoter in a SUMOylation-dependent manner. Disruption of SUMOylation by targeting either Ubc9 or PIASy restored SIRT1 expression in and favored an epithelial-like phenotype of cancer cells, thereby preventing metastasis. Decreased SIRT1 combined with elevated PIASy expression was implicated in more-invasive types of lung cancers in humans. CONCLUSIONS: We have identified a novel pathway that links SIRT1 down-regulation to hypoxia-induced EMT in lung cancer cells and may shed light on the development of novel antitumor therapeutics.
23843607 | PIASy mediates hypoxia-induced SIRT1 transcriptional repression and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition in ovarian cancer cells. Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) has an essential role in organogenesis and contributes to a host of pathologies, including carcinogenesis. Hypoxia (low oxygen supply) aids tumor metastasis in part by promoting EMT in cancer cells. The underlying mechanism whereby hypoxia orchestrates EMT remains poorly defined. Here we report that SIRT1, a multifaceted player in tumorigenesis, opposed ovarian cancer metastasis in vitro and in vivo by impeding EMT. Hypoxic stress downregulated the expression of SIRT1, primarily at the transcriptional level, by reducing the occupancy of the transcriptional activator Sp1 on the proximal promoter of the SIRT1 gene in a SUMOylation-dependent manner. Further analysis revealed that the SUMO E3 ligase PIASy (also known as PIAS4) was induced by hypoxia and prevented Sp1 from binding to the SIRT1 promoter. Conversely, knockdown of PIASy by small interfering RNA (siRNA) restored Sp1 binding and SIRT1 expression in cancer cells challenged with hypobaric hypoxia, reversed cancer cell EMT, and attenuated metastasis in vivo in nude mice. Importantly, analysis of human ovarian tumor specimens indicated that PIASy expression was positively, whereas SIRT1 expression was inversely, correlated with cancer aggressiveness. In summary, our work has identified a new pathway that links downregulation of SIRT1 to hypoxia-induced EMT in ovarian cancer cells and, as such, sheds light on the development of novel anti-tumor therapeutics. 
23893515 | Sumoylation at chromatin governs coordinated repression of a transcriptional program essential for cell growth and proliferation. Despite numerous studies on specific sumoylated transcriptional regulators, the global role of SUMO on chromatin in relation to transcription regulation remains largely unknown. Here, we determined the genome-wide localization of SUMO1 and SUMO2/3, as well as of UBC9 (encoded by UBE2I) and PIASY (encoded by PIAS4), two markers for active sumoylation, along with Pol II and histone marks in proliferating versus senescent human fibroblasts together with gene expression profiling. We found that, whereas SUMO alone is widely distributed over the genome with strong association at active promoters, active sumoylation occurs most prominently at promoters of histone and protein biogenesis genes, as well as Pol I rRNAs and Pol III tRNAs. Remarkably, these four classes of genes are up-regulated by inhibition of sumoylation, indicating that SUMO normally acts to restrain their expression. In line with this finding, sumoylation-deficient cells show an increase in both cell size and global protein levels. Strikingly, we found that in senescent cells, the SUMO machinery is selectively retained at histone and tRNA gene clusters, whereas it is massively released from all other unique chromatin regions. These data, which reveal the highly dynamic nature of the SUMO landscape, suggest that maintenance of a repressive environment at histone and tRNA loci is a hallmark of the senescent state. The approach taken in our study thus permitted the identification of a common biological output and uncovered hitherto unknown functions for active sumoylation at chromatin as a key mechanism that, in dynamically marking chromatin by a simple modifier, orchestrates concerted transcriptional regulation of a network of genes essential for cell growth and proliferation. 
24379443 | PIASy-mediated sumoylation of SREBP1c regulates hepatic lipid metabolism upon fasting signaling. SREBP1c is a key transcription factor that regulates de novo lipogenesis during anabolic periods. However, the molecular mechanisms involved in the suppression of SREBP1c under nutritional deprivation are largely unknown. In this study, we demonstrate that the small ubiquitin-related modifier (SUMO) E3 ligase, a protein inhibitor of activated STAT Y (PIASy), sumoylates SREBP1c at Lys98, leading to suppression of the hepatic lipogenic program upon fasting-induced signals. In primary hepatocytes, ablation of PIASy stimulated intracellular lipid accumulation through the induction of SREBP1c and its target genes. Given that protein kinase A (PKA) plays important roles in catabolic responses, activated PKA enhances the sumoylation of SREBP1c and potentiates the interaction between SREBP1c and PIASy. Notably, overexpression of PIASy in obese db/db mice ameliorated hepatic steatosis, while suppression of PIASy in lean (wild-type) mice stimulated hepatic lipogenesis with increased expression of SREBP1c target genes. Furthermore, PKA-mediated SREBP1c phosphorylation augmented SREBP1c sumoylation, subsequently leading to degradation of SREBP1c via ubiquitination. Together, these data suggest that PKA-induced SREBP1c sumoylation by PIASy is a key regulatory mechanism to turn off hepatic lipogenesis during nutritional deprivation. 
24457965 | ROS-PIASgamma cross talk channelizes ATM signaling from resistance to apoptosis during chemosensitization of resistant tumors. With the existing knowledge of ATM's role in therapeutic resistance, the present study aimed at identifying the molecular mechanisms that influence ATM to oscillate between chemoresistance and chemosensitivity. We observed that the redox status of tumors functions as a major determinant of ATM-dependent 'resistance-to-apoptosis' molecular switch. At a low reactive oxygen species (ROS) condition during genotoxic insult, the ATM/sumoylated-IKKgamma interaction induced NFkappaB activation that resisted JNK-mediated apoptosis, whereas increasing cellular ROS restored ATM/JNK apoptotic signaling. A search for the upstream missing link revealed that high ROS induces oxidation and ubiquitin-mediated degradation of PIASgamma, thereby disrupting PIASgamma-IKKgamma cross talk, a pre-requisite for IKKgamma sumoylation and subsequent NFkappaB activation. Interruption in the PIASgamma-mediated resistance pathway channels ATM signaling toward ATM/JNK pro-death circuitry. These in vitro results also translated to sensitive and resistant tumor allograft mouse models in which low ROS-induced resistance was over-ruled in PIASgamma knockout tumors, while its overexpression inhibited high ROS-dependent apoptotic cues. Cumulatively, our findings identified an unappreciated yet critical combinatorial function of cellular ROS and PIASgamma in regulating ATM-mediated chemosensitization of resistant tumors. Thus, therapeutic strategies employing ROS upregulation to inhibit PIASgamma during genotoxic therapy may, in future, help to eliminate the problems of NFkappaB-mediated tumor drug resistance. 
24614299 | Tomosyn interacts with the SUMO E3 ligase PIASgamma. Protein modification by Small Ubiquitin-like MOdifier (SUMO) entities is involved in a number of neuronal functions, including synaptogenesis and synaptic plasticity. Tomosyn-1 (syntaxin-binding protein 5; STXPB5) binds to t-SNARE (Soluble NSF Attachment Protein Receptor) proteins to regulate neurotransmission and is one of the few neuronal SUMO substrate proteins identified. Here we used yeast two-hybrid screening to show that tomosyn-1 interacts with the SUMO E3 ligase PIASgamma (Protein Inhibitor of Activated STAT; PIAS4 or ZMIZ6). This novel interaction involved the C-terminus of tomosyn-1 and the N-terminus of PIASgamma. It was confirmed by two-way immunoprecipitation experiments using the full-length proteins expressed in HEK293T cells. Tomosyn-1 was preferentially modified by the SUMO-2/3 isoform. PIASgamma-dependent modification of tomosyn-1 with SUMO-2/3 presents a novel mechanism to adapt secretory strength to the dynamic synaptic environment. 
25425577 | A dysregulated acetyl/SUMO switch of FXR promotes hepatic inflammation in obesity. Acetylation of transcriptional regulators is normally dynamically regulated by nutrient status but is often persistently elevated in nutrient-excessive obesity conditions. We investigated the functional consequences of such aberrantly elevated acetylation of the nuclear receptor FXR as a model. Proteomic studies identified K217 as the FXR acetylation site in diet-induced obese mice. In vivo studies utilizing acetylation-mimic and acetylation-defective K217 mutants and gene expression profiling revealed that FXR acetylation increased proinflammatory gene expression, macrophage infiltration, and liver cytokine and triglyceride levels, impaired insulin signaling, and increased glucose intolerance. Mechanistically, acetylation of FXR blocked its interaction with the SUMO ligase PIASy and inhibited SUMO2 modification at K277, resulting in activation of inflammatory genes. SUMOylation of agonist-activated FXR increased its interaction with NF-kappaB but blocked that with RXRalpha, so that SUMO2-modified FXR was selectively recruited to and trans-repressed inflammatory genes without affecting FXR/RXRalpha target genes. A dysregulated acetyl/SUMO switch of FXR in obesity may serve as a general mechanism for diminished anti-inflammatory response of other transcriptional regulators and provide potential therapeutic and diagnostic targets for obesity-related metabolic disorders. 
25614517 | Starvation promotes REV1 SUMOylation and p53-dependent sensitization of melanoma and breast cancer cells. Short-term starvation or fasting can augment cancer treatment efficacy and can be effective in delaying cancer progression in the absence of chemotherapy, but the underlying molecular mechanisms of action remain elusive. Here, we describe the role of REV1, a specialized DNA polymerase involved in DNA repair, as an important signaling node linking nutrient sensing and metabolic control to cell fate. We show that REV1 is a novel binding partner of the tumor suppressor p53 and regulates its activity. Under starvation, REV1 is modified by SUMO2/3, resulting in the relief of REV1's inhibition of p53 and enhancing p53's effects on proapoptotic gene expression and apoptosis in breast cancer and melanoma cells. Thus, fasting in part through its effect on REV1 is a promising nontoxic strategy to increase p53-dependent cell death and to enhance the efficacy of cancer therapies.
25701873 | The E3 ubiquitin ligase TRIM32 regulates myoblast proliferation by controlling turnover of NDRG2. Limb girdle muscular dystrophy 2H is caused by mutations in the gene encoding the E3 ubiquitin ligase, TRIM32. Previously, we generated and characterized a Trim32 knockout mouse (T32KO) that displays both neurogenic and myopathic features. The myopathy in these mice is attributable to impaired muscle growth, associated with satellite cell senescence and premature sarcopenia. This satellite cell senescence is due to accumulation of the SUMO ligase PIASy, a substrate of TRIM32. The goal of this investigation was to identify additional substrates of TRIM32 using 2D fluorescence difference gel electrophoresis (2D-DIGE) in order to further explore its role in skeletal muscle. Because TRIM32 is an E3 ubiquitin ligase, we reasoned that TRIM32's substrates would accumulate in its absence. 2D-DIGE identified 19 proteins that accumulate in muscles from the T32KO mouse. We focused on two of these proteins, NDRG2 and TRIM72, due to their putative roles in myoblast proliferation and myogenesis. Follow-up analysis confirmed that both proteins were ubiquitinated by TRIM32 in vitro; however, only NDRG2 accumulated in skeletal muscle and myoblasts in the absence of TRIM32. NDRG2 overexpression in myoblasts led to reduced cell proliferation and delayed cell cycle withdrawal during differentiation. Thus, we identified NDRG2 as a novel target for TRIM32; these findings further corroborate the hypothesis that TRIM32 is involved in control of myogenic cells proliferation and differentiation. 
26063058 | SUMOylation and Ubiquitylation Circuitry Controls Pregnane X Receptor Biology in Hepatocytes. Several nuclear receptor (NR) superfamily members are known to be the molecular target of either the small ubiquitin-related modifier (SUMO) or ubiquitin-signaling pathways. However, little is currently known regarding how these two post-translational modifications interact to control NR biology. We show that SUMO and ubiquitin circuitry coordinately modifies the pregnane X receptor (PXR, NR1I2) to play a key role in regulating PXR protein stability, transactivation capacity, and transcriptional repression. The SUMOylation and ubiquitylation of PXR is increased in a ligand- and tumor necrosis factor alpha -: dependent manner in hepatocytes. The SUMO-E3 ligase enzymes protein inhibitor of activated signal transducer and activator of transcription-1 (STAT1) STAT-1 (PIAS1) and protein inhibitor of activated STAT Y (PIASy) drive high levels of PXR SUMOylation. Expression of protein inhibitor of activated stat 1 selectively increases SUMO(3)ylation as well as PXR-mediated induction of cytochrome P450, family 3, subfamily A and the xenobiotic response. The PIASy-mediated SUMO(1)ylation imparts a transcriptionally repressive function by ameliorating interaction of PXR with coactivator protein peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator-1-alpha. The SUMO modification of PXR is effectively antagonized by the SUMO protease sentrin protease (SENP) 2, whereas SENP3 and SENP6 proteases are highly active in the removal of SUMO2/3 chains. The PIASy-mediated SUMO(1)ylation of PXR inhibits ubiquitin-mediated degradation of this important liver-enriched NR by the 26S proteasome. Our data reveal a working model that delineates the interactive role that these two post-translational modifications play in reconciling PXR-mediated gene activation of the xenobiotic response versus transcriptional repression of the proinflammatory response in hepatocytes. Taken together, our data reveal that the SUMOylation and ubiquitylation of the PXR interface in a fundamental manner directs its biologic function in the liver in response to xenobiotic or inflammatory stress. 
26083374 | SUMOylation Blocks the Ubiquitin-Mediated Degradation of the Nephronophthisis Gene Product Glis2/NPHP7. Glis2/NPHP7 is a transcriptional regulator mutated in type 7 nephronophthisis, an autosomal recessive ciliopathy associated with cystic and fibrotic kidney disease as well as characteristic extrarenal manifestations. While most ciliopathy-associated molecules are found in the cilium, Glis2/NPHP7 presumably localizes to the nucleus. However, the detection of endogenous Glis2/NPHP7 has remained unsuccessful, potentially due to its ubiquitylation-dependent rapid degradation. We report now that Glis2/NPHP7 is also SUMOylated, preferentially by PIAS4, which conjugates Glis2/NPHP7 to SUMO3. SUMOylation interferes with ubiquitylation and degradation of Glis2/NPHP7, suggesting that Glis2/NPHP7 protein levels are regulated by competing ubiquitylation/ SUMOylation. SUMOylation also alters the transcriptional activity of Glis2/NPHP7. While Glis2/NPHP7 activates the mouse insulin-2-promotor (mIns2), SUMOylated Glis2/NPHP7 lacks this property, and seems to act as a repressor. Taken together, our data reveal that Glis2/NPHP7 is extensively modified by post-translational modifications, suggesting that a tight control of this transcriptional regulator is required for normal development and tissue homeostasis. 
26708148 | Protein inhibitor of activated STAT xalpha depresses cyclin D and cyclin D kinase, and contributes to the inhibition of osteosarcoma cell progression. Previous studies have shown that protein inhibitor of activated STAT (PIAs)xalpha is crucial in protein sumoylation and is associated with cancer cell progression. However, the mechanism underlying the inhibitory effect on cancer cells, which may assist in developing novel treatment strategies in cancer remains to be elucidated. In present study, the expression levels of PIAsxalpha from tissue samples of osteosarcoma and adjacent tissues from 25 patients were analyzed using reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction, western blot and immunohistochemical analyses. In addition, techniques using an overexpression vector and small interfering (si)RNAs were used to examine the effect of PIAsxalpha on osteosarcoma cells. Finally, using xenograft U2-OS osteosarcoma cells overexpressing PIAsxalpha, the effect of PIAsxalpha on osteosarcoma formation was determined. The results revealed low expression of PIAsxalpha in osteosarcoma tissues. In addition, following overexpression of PIAsxalpha, the apoptotic rates were significantly increased. The rate of G2/M arrest was at the highest level in the overexpression group, compared with other groups assessed. Furthermore, the expression levels of cyclin D1 and cyclin D3 were inhibited following PIAsxalpha increase, indicating the repressive effects of PIAsxalpha on cell cycle. Accordingly, cyclin D kinase (CDK) genes, including CDK4, CDK6 and CDK8, increased markedly following treatment with PIAsxalpha siRNAs. The expression levels of CDK4, CDK6 and CDK8 decreased significantly in the overexpression group, compared to the other groups. Furthermore, high expression levels of PIAsxalpha inhibited tumor formation in a nude mouse model. Taken together, these findings provide evidence for the effects of PIAsxalpha and its mechanism on osteosarcoma progression, which offers novel insight into sumoylation and the cell cycle in osteosarcoma.
27162139 | Ubiquitin E3 ligase FIEL1 regulates fibrotic lung injury through SUMO-E3 ligase PIAS4. The E3 small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) protein ligase protein inhibitor of activated STAT 4 (PIAS4) is a pivotal protein in regulating the TGFbeta pathway. In this study, we discovered a new protein isoform encoded by KIAA0317, termed fibrosis-inducing E3 ligase 1 (FIEL1), which potently stimulates the TGFbeta signaling pathway through the site-specific ubiquitination of PIAS4. FIEL1 targets PIAS4 using a double locking mechanism that is facilitated by the kinases PKCzeta and GSK3beta. Specifically, PKCzeta phosphorylation of PIAS4 and GSK3beta phosphorylation of FIEL1 are both essential for the degradation of PIAS4. FIEL1 protein is highly expressed in lung tissues from patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), whereas PIAS4 protein levels are significantly reduced. FIEL1 overexpression significantly increases fibrosis in a bleomycin murine model, whereas FIEL1 knockdown attenuates fibrotic conditions. Further, we developed a first-in-class small molecule inhibitor toward FIEL1 that is highly effective in ameliorating fibrosis in mice. This study provides a basis for IPF therapeutic intervention by modulating PIAS4 protein abundance.
27177020 | The activity of the glucocorticoid receptor is regulated by SUMO conjugation to FKBP51. FK506-binding protein 51 (FKBP51) regulates the activity of the glucocorticoid receptor (GR), and is therefore a key mediator of the biological actions of glucocorticoids. However, the understanding of the molecular mechanisms that govern its activity remains limited. Here, we uncover a novel regulatory switch for GR activity by the post-translational modification of FKBP51 with small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO). The major SUMO-attachment site, lysine 422, is required for FKBP51-mediated inhibition of GR activity in hippocampal neuronal cells. Importantly, impairment of SUMO conjugation to FKBP51 impacts on GR-dependent neuronal signaling and differentiation. We demonstrate that SUMO conjugation to FKBP51 is enhanced by the E3 ligase PIAS4 and by environmental stresses such as heat shock, which impact on GR-dependent transcription. SUMO conjugation to FKBP51 regulates GR hormone-binding affinity and nuclear translocation by promoting FKBP51 interaction within the GR complex. SUMOylation-deficient FKBP51 fails to interact with Hsp90 and GR thus facilitating the recruitment of the closely related protein, FKBP52, which enhances GR transcriptional activity. Moreover, we show that the modification of FKBP51 with SUMO modulates its binding to Hsp90. Our data establish SUMO conjugation as a novel regulatory mechanism in the Hsp90 cochaperone activity of FKBP51 with a functional impact on GR signaling in a neuronal context.
27285989 | Protein inhibitor of activated STAT 4 (PIAS4) regulates pro-inflammatory transcription in hepatocytes by repressing SIRT1. Excessive nutrition promotes the pathogenesis of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), characterized by the accumulation of pro-inflammation mediators in the liver. In the present study we investigated the regulation of pro-inflammatory transcription in hepatocytes by protein inhibitor of activated STAT 4 (PIAS4) in this process and the underlying mechanisms. We report that expression of the class III deacetylase SIRT1 was down-regulated in the livers of NASH mice accompanied by a simultaneous increase in the expression and binding activity of PIAS4. Exposure to high glucose stimulated the expression PIAS4 in cultured hepatocytes paralleling SIRT1 repression. Estrogen, a known NASH-protective hormone, ameliorated SIRT1 trans-repression by targeting PIAS4. Over-expression of PIAS4 enhanced, while PIAS4 knockdown alleviated, repression of SIRT1 transcription by high glucose. Lentiviral delivery of short hairpin RNA (shRNA) targeting PIAS4 attenuated hepatic inflammation in NASH mice by restoring SIRT1 expression. Mechanistically, PIAS4 promoted NF-kappaB-mediated pro-inflammatory transcription in a SIRT1 dependent manner. In conclusion, our study indicates that PIAS4 mediated SIRT1 repression in response to nutrient surplus contributes to the pathogenesis of NASH. Therefore, targeting PIAS4 might provide novel therapeutic strategies in the intervention of NASH.
27312341 | A post-translational modification cascade employing HDAC9-PIASy-RNF4 axis regulates chondrocyte hypertrophy by modulating Nkx3.2 protein stability. While Nkx3.2/Bapx1 promotes chondrogenic differentiation and plays a role in maintaining chondrocyte viability and suppressing chondrocyte hypertrophy, the regulatory mechanisms of Nkx3.2 remain poorly understood. Here we show that p300- and HDAC9-induced Nkx3.2 acetylation and de-acetylation, respectively, play critical roles in controlling Nkx3.2 protein stability. In addition, we also found that HDAC9-dependent de-acetylation of Nkx3.2 triggers PIASy-mediated sumoylation and subsequent RNF4-mediated SUMO-targeted ubiquitination. Furthermore, we demonstrate that Nkx3.2 regulation by HDAC9 can be linked to the management of chondrocyte survival and hypertrophic maturation during cartilage development. Finally, our results together reveal a novel mechanism of protein stability control involving complex interplay between acetylation, de-acetylation, sumoylation, and ubiquitination, and suggest that this post-translational modification of Nkx3.2 employing HDAC9-PIASy-RNF4 axis plays a crucial role in controlling chondrocyte viability and hypertrophic maturation during skeletal development in vertebrates.
27323886 | Transcriptional repression of SIRT1 by protein inhibitor of activated STAT 4 (PIAS4) in hepatic stellate cells contributes to liver fibrosis. Interstitial fibrosis represents a key pathological process in non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). In the liver, fibrogenesis is primarily mediated by activated hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) transitioning from a quiescent state in response to a host of stimuli. The molecular mechanism underlying HSC activation is not completely understood. Here we report that there was a simultaneous up-regulation of PIAS4 expression and down-regulation of SIRT1 expression accompanying increased hepatic fibrogenesis in an MCD-diet induced mouse model of NASH. In cultured primary mouse HSCs, stimulation with high glucose activated PIAS4 while at the same time repressed SIRT1. Over-expression of PIAS4 directly repressed SIRT1 promoter activity. In contrast, depletion of PIAS4 restored SIRT1 expression in HSCs treated with high glucose. Estrogen, a known NASH-protective hormone, antagonized HSC activation by targeting PIAS4. Lentivirus-mediated delivery of short hairpin RNA (shRNA) targeting PIAS4 in mice ameliorated MCD diet induced liver fibrosis by normalizing SIRT1 expression in vivo. PIAS4 promoted HSC activation in a SIRT1-dependent manner in vitro. Mechanistically, PIAS4 mediated SIRT1 repression led to SMAD3 hyperacetylation and enhanced SMAD3 binding to fibrogenic gene promoters. Taken together, our data suggest SIRT1 trans-repression by PIAS4 plays an important role in HSC activation and liver fibrosis.
27658114 | Therapeutic targets in fibrotic pathways. The pathogenetic heterogeneity of pulmonary fibrosis yields both challenges and opportunities for therapy. Its complexity implicates a variety of cellular processes, signaling pathways, and genetics as drivers of disease. TGF-beta stimulation is one avenue, and is central to pro-fibrotic protein expression, leading to decreased pulmonary function. Here we report our recent findings, introducing the E3 ligase Fibrosis Inducing E3 Ligase 1 (FIEL1) as an important regulator of TGF-beta signaling through the selective degradation of PIAS4. FIEL1 exacerbates bleomycin-induced murine pulmonary fibrosis, while its silencing attenuates the fibrotic phenotype. Further, we developed a small molecule inhibitor of FIEL1 (BC-1485) that inhibits the degradation of PIAS4, and ameliorates fibrosis in murine models. New understanding of this pathway illustrates the many targeting opportunities among the complexity of pulmonary fibrosis in the continuing search for therapy.
27924068 | Protein inhibitor of activated STAT 4 (PIAS4) regulates liver fibrosis through modulating SMAD3 activity. Excessive fibrogenesis disrupts normal liver structure, impairs liver function, and precipitates the development of cirrhosis, an irreversible end-stage liver disease. A host of factors including nutrition surplus contribute to liver fibrosis but the underlying mechanism is not fully understood. In the present study, we investigated the involvement of protein inhibitor for activated stat 4 (PIAS4) in liver fibrosis in a mouse model of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). We report that PIAS4 silencing using short hairpin RNA (shRNA) attenuated high-fat high-carbohydrate (HFHC) diet induced liver fibrosis in mice. Quantitative PCR and Western blotting analyses confirmed that PIAS4 knockdown downregulated a panel of pro-fibrogenic genes including type I and type III collagens, smooth muscle actin, and tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinase. Mechanistically, PIAS4 silencing blocked the recruitment of SMAD3, a potent pro-fibrogenic transcription factor, to the promoter regions of pro-fibrogenic genes and dampened SMAD3 acetylation likely by upregulating SIRT1 expression. In conclusion, PIAS4 may contribute to liver fibrosis by modulating SIRT1-dependent SMAD3 acetylation.
28000708 | Protein Inhibitor of Activated STAT Y (PIASy) Regulates Insulin Secretion by Interacting with LIM Homeodomain Transcription Factor Isl1. It is known that the LIM homeodomain transcription factor Isl1 is highly expressed in all pancreatic endocrine cells and functions in regulating pancreatic development and insulin secretion. The Isl1 mutation has been found to be associated with type 2 diabetes, but the mechanism responsible for Isl1 regulation of insulin synthesis and secretion still needs to be elucidated. In the present study, the protein inhibitor of activated STAT Y (PIASy) was identified as a novel Isl1-interacting protein with a yeast two-hybrid system, and its interaction with Isl1 was further confirmed by a co-immunoprecipitation experiment. PIASy and Isl1 colocalize in human and mouse pancreas and NIT beta cells. Furthermore, PIASy and Isl1 upregulate insulin gene expression and insulin secretion in a dose-dependent manner by activating the insulin promoter. PIASy and Isl1 mRNA expression levels were also increased in type 2 diabetic db/db mice. In addition, our results demonstrate that PIASy and Isl1 cooperate to activate the insulin promoter through the Isl1 homeodomain and PIASy ring domain. These data suggest that that PIASy regulates insulin synthesis and secretion by interacting with Isl1 and provide new insight into insulin regulation, although the detailed molecular mechanism needs to be clarified in future studies.
28689771 | Immunosuppression with tacrolimus improved implantation and rescued expression of uterine progesterone receptor and its co-regulators FKBP52 and PIASy at nidation in the obese and diabetic mice: Comparative studies with metformin. Diabesity is often associated with subfertility and recurrent miscarriages. Evidence links systemic and local uterine cytotoxicity to the pathogenesis of implantation failure (IF) in diabetes. Immunosuppression with tacrolimus improved pregnancy outcomes in obese and diabetic mice and repeated IF in women with elevated Th1/Th2 blood cell ratios. However the mode of action of tacrolimus in protecting against IF and the molecular mechanisms associated with recurrent miscarriages in the obese and diabetic subjects are yet to be elucidated. Here we administered tacrolimus (FK506) (0.1 mg/kg) for four consecutive weeks to the NONcNZO10/LtJ mice, a model of human PCOS, chronically fed with 60% kCal fat for 16 consecutive weeks to simulate human obesity-associated T2DM. Compared to those immunosuppressed with tacrolimus and their normative controls, high-fat fed (HFD) diabetic NONcNZO mice exhibited higher rates of peri- and post-implantation resorption and had aberrant expression of uterine IFNgamma and progesterone receptor (PGR) and its immunophilin co-chaperone FKBP52 at nidation. Immature uterodomes and lack of activation of uterine STAT3 and NFkappaB at implantation were characteristics of IF in the HFD-dNONcNZO dams also low in the deciduogenic factors IL11 and GM-CSF. Therapeutic interventions with tacrolimus or metformin normalized the expression of decidual IFNgamma, PGR and FKBP52, increased co-localization of protein inhibitor of activated STATy (PIASy) to PGR and resulted in the upregulation of uterine IL11and LIF. Rescued phosphorylation of STAT3 and NFkappaBp65 and uterodome maturation at nidation defined implantation success in treated dams. To our knowledge this is the first report to show that the impact of HFD on the hemochorial implantation is at least in part mediated through disruption of PGR signaling at nidation and that immunosuppression with tacrolimus or treatment with metformin restores PGR-mediated influences during implantation in the obese and diabetic subjects.
28970247 | Chromatin remodeling: demethylating H3K4me3 of type I IFNs gene by Rbp2 through interacting with Piasy for transcriptional attenuation. Type I IFNs (IFNIs) are involved in the course of antiviral and antimicrobial activities; however, robust inductions of these can lead to host immunopathology. We have reported that the Pias (protein inhibitor of activated signal transducer and activator of transcription) family member, Piasy, possesses the ability to suppress IFNI transcriptions in mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs), yet the specific molecular mechanism by which it acts remains elusive. Here, we identify that the H3K4me3 levels, one activation mark of genes, in MEFs that were stimulated by poly(I:C) were impaired by Piasy in the IFN-beta gene. Piasy bound to the promoter region of the IFN-beta gene in MEFs. Meanwhile, retinoblastoma binding protein 2 (Rbp2) was proven to be the only known and novel H3K4me3 demethylase that interacted with Piasy. Overexpression of Rbp2, but not its enzymatically inactive mutant Rbp2H483G/E485Q, retarded the transcription activities of IFNI, whereas small interfering RNA-mediated or short hairpin RNA-mediated knockdown of Rbp2 enhanced IFNI promoter responses. Above all, coexpression of Piasy and Rbp2 led to statistically less IFNI induction than overexpression of either Piasy or Rbp2 alone. Mechanistically, Piasy bound to the Jmjc domain (451-503 aa) of Rbp2 via its PINIT domain (101-218 aa), which is consistent with the domain required for their attenuation of transcription and H3K4me3 levels of IFNI genes. Our study demonstrates that Piasy may prevent exaggerated transcription of IFNI by Rbp2-mediated demethylation of H3K4me3 of IFNI, avoiding excessive immune responses.-Yu, X., Chen, H., Zuo, C., Jin, X., Yin, Y., Wang, H., Jin, M., Ozato, K., Xu, S. Chromatin remodeling: demethylating H3K4me3 of type I IFNs gene by Rbp2 through interacting with Piasy for transcriptional attenuation.
30143652 | The E3 SUMO ligase PIASgamma is a novel interaction partner regulating the activity of diabetes associated hepatocyte nuclear factor-1alpha. The transcription factor hepatocyte nuclear factor-1alpha (HNF-1A) is involved in normal pancreas development and function. Rare variants in the HNF1A gene can cause monogenic diabetes, while common variants confer type 2 diabetes risk. The precise mechanisms for regulation of HNF-1A, including the role and function of post-translational modifications, are still largely unknown. Here, we present the first evidence for HNF-1A being a substrate of SUMOylation in cellulo and identify two lysine (K) residues (K205 and K273) as SUMOylation sites. Overexpression of protein inhibitor of activated STAT (PIASgamma) represses the transcriptional activity of HNF-1A and is dependent on simultaneous HNF-1A SUMOylation at K205 and K273. Moreover, PIASgamma is a novel HNF-1A interaction partner whose expression leads to translocation of HNF-1A to the nuclear periphery. Thus, our findings support that the E3 SUMO ligase PIASgamma regulates HNF-1A SUMOylation with functional implications, representing new targets for drug development and precision medicine in diabetes.
31226106 | DPPA2/4 and SUMO E3 ligase PIAS4 opposingly regulate zygotic transcriptional program. The molecular mechanism controlling the zygotic genome activation (ZGA) in mammals remains poorly understood. The 2-cell (2C)-like cells spontaneously emerging from cultures of mouse embryonic stem cells (ESCs) share some key transcriptional and epigenetic programs with 2C-stage embryos. By studying the transition of ESCs into 2C-like cells, we identified developmental pluripotency associated 2 and 4 (Dppa2/4) as important regulators controlling zygotic transcriptional program through directly up-regulating the expression of double homeobox (Dux). In addition, we found that DPPA2 protein is sumoylated and its activity is negatively regulated by small ubiquitin-like modifier (Sumo) E3 ligase protein inhibitor of activated STAT 4 (PIAS4). PIAS4 is down-regulated during ZGA process and during transitioning of ESCs into 2C-like cells. Depleting Pias4 or overexpressing Dppa2/4 is sufficient to activate 2C-like transcriptional program, whereas depleting Dppa2/4 or forced expression of Pias4 or Sumo2-Dppa2 inhibits 2C-like transcriptional program. Furthermore, ectopic expression of Pias4 or Sumo2-Dppa2 impairs early mouse embryo development. In summary, our study identifies key molecular rivals consisting of transcription factors and a Sumo2 E3 ligase that regulate zygotic transcriptional program upstream of Dux.
31614335 | PIASy is a SUMOylation-independent negative regulator of the insulin transactivator MafA. Insulin plays a central role in glucose homeostasis and is produced exclusively by pancreatic islet beta-cells. Insulin gene transcription is regulated by a set of beta-cell-enriched transcription factors that bind to cis-regulatory elements within the promoter region, and regulation of the insulin gene promoter is closely linked to beta-cell functionality. PIASy, a member of the PIAS family of SUMO E3 ligases, is thought to affect insulin gene transcription, but its mechanism of action is not fully understood. Here, we demonstrate that PIASy interacts with MafA and represses insulin gene promoter activity. MafA is a beta-cell-restricted basic leucine-zipper transcriptional activator that binds to the C1 element of the insulin gene promoter. In line with previous studies showing the transactivator domain of MafA is SUMOylated, PIASy enhanced the SUMOylation of MafA. However, a SUMOylation-deficient mutant of MafA was still repressed by PIASy, indicating that this modification is dispensable for repression. Using a series of MafA and PIASy mutants, we found that the basic domain of MafA and the amino-terminal region of PIASy containing the SAP domain are necessary for their interaction. In addition, SUMO-interacting motif 1 (SIM1) at the carboxyl-terminal region of PIASy was required to repress the synergistic transactivation of MafA, Pdx1, and Beta2, transcription factors playing central roles in beta-cell differentiation and function. The PINIT and SP-RING domains in the middle region of PIASy were dispensable. These findings suggest that PIASy binds to MafA through the SAP domain and negatively regulates the insulin gene promoter through a novel SIM1-dependent mechanism.
32462635 | Regulation of ALS-Associated SOD1 Mutant SUMOylation and Aggregation by SENP and PIAS Family Proteins. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disease specific to motor neurons. Pathogenic mutations in an ALS-associated gene encoding superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) have been identified in familial ALS (fALS) cases. SOD1 with fALS-linked mutations is prone to form cytotoxic aggregates that cause cellular dysfunction. We previously demonstrated that the modification of SOD1 by small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) 3 enhances the aggregation of fALS-linked SOD1 mutants. SUMOylation is a reversible post-translational modification targeting lysine residues. SUMO conjugation is mediated by the enzymes E1, E2, and E3, and deconjugation is catalyzed by deSUMOylation enzymes. To understand the process of SOD1 aggregation, we examined the involvement of protein inhibitor of activated STAT (PIAS) family and sentrin-specific protease (SENP) family proteins in the SUMOylation of SOD1 mutants. We found that all four types of PIAS family proteins, E3 ligase of SUMOylation, increased SUMOylation of SOD1 mutants. Among three SENP family proteins tested, deSUMOylation enzymes, SENP1, exhibited the most efficient deconjugation effect. In co-expression experiments, PIASy and SENP1 increased and decreased the number of cells exhibiting SOD1-mutant aggregation, respectively, confirming the effect of these enzymes on SOD1 aggregation. These findings suggest that regulation of SUMOylation affects the pathogenesis of ALS.
32571912 | TNF deficiency dysregulates inflammatory cytokine production, leading to lung pathology and death during respiratory poxvirus infection. Excessive tumor necrosis factor (TNF) is known to cause significant pathology. Paradoxically, deficiency in TNF (TNF-/-) also caused substantial pathology during respiratory ectromelia virus (ECTV) infection, a surrogate model for smallpox. TNF-/- mice succumbed to fulminant disease whereas wild-type mice, and those engineered to express only transmembrane TNF (mTNF), fully recovered. TNF deficiency did not affect viral load or leukocyte recruitment but caused severe lung pathology and excessive production of the cytokines interleukin (IL)-6, IL-10, transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta), and interferon gamma (IFN-gamma). Short-term blockade of these cytokines significantly reduced lung pathology in TNF-/- mice concomitant with induction of protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 (PIAS3) and/or suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 (SOCS3), factors that inhibit STAT3 activation. Consequently, inhibition of STAT3 activation with an inhibitor reduced lung pathology. Long-term neutralization of IL-6 or TGF-beta protected TNF-/- mice from an otherwise lethal infection. Thus, mTNF alone is necessary and sufficient to regulate lung inflammation but it has no direct antiviral activity against ECTV. The data indicate that targeting specific cytokines or cytokine-signaling pathways to reduce or ameliorate lung inflammation during respiratory viral infections is possible but that the timing and duration of the interventive measure are critical.
32784646 | Homeoprotein Msx1-PIASy Interaction Inhibits Angiogenesis. Previously, we demonstrated that the homeoprotein Msx1 interaction with p53 inhibited tumor growth by inducing apoptosis. However, Msx1 can exert its tumor suppressive effect through the inhibition of angiogenesis since growth of the tumor relies on sufficient blood supply from the existing vessels to provide oxygen and nutrients for tumor growth. We hypothesized that the inhibition of tumor growth by Msx1 might be due to the inhibition of angiogenesis. Here, we explored the role of Msx1 in angiogenesis. Overexpression of Msx1 in HUVECs inhibited angiogenesis, and silencing of Msx1 by siRNA abrogated its anti-angiogenic effects. Furthermore, forced expression of Msx1 in mouse muscle tissue inhibited vessel sprouting, and application of an Ad-Msx1-transfected conditioned medium onto the chicken chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) led to a significant inhibition of new vessel formation. To explore the underlying mechanism of Msx1-mediated angiogenesis, yeast two-hybrid screening was performed, and we identified PIASy (protein inhibitor of activated STAT Y) as a novel Msx1-interacting protein. We mapped the homeodomain of Msx1 and the C-terminal domain of PIASy as respective interacting domains. Consistent with its anti-angiogenic function, overexpression of Msx1 suppressed the reporter activity of VEGF. Interestingly, PIASy stabilized Msx1 protein, whereas deletion of the Msx1-interacting domain in PIASy abrogated the inhibition of tube formation and the stabilization of Msx1 protein. Our findings suggest the functional importance of PIASy-Msx1 interaction in Msx1-mediated angiogenesis inhibition.
34459572 | Super-resolution study of PIAS SUMO E3-ligases in hippocampal and cortical neurons. The SUMOylation machinery is a regulator of neuronal activity and synaptic plasticity. It is composed of SUMO isoforms and specialized enzymes named E1, E2 and E3 SUMO ligases. Recent studies have highlighted how SUMO isoforms and E2 enzymes localize with synaptic markers to support previous functional studies but less information is available on E3 ligases. PIAS proteins - belonging to the protein inhibitor of activated STAT (PIAS) SUMO E3-ligase family - are the best-characterized SUMO E3-ligases and have been linked to the formation of spatial memory in rodents. Whether however they exert their function co-localizing with synaptic markers is still unclear. In this study, we applied for the first time structured illumination microscopy (SIM) to PIAS ligases to investigate the co-localization of PIAS1 and PIAS3 with synaptic markers in hippocampal and cortical murine neurons. The results indicate partial co-localization of PIAS1 and PIAS3 with synaptic markers in hippocampal neurons and much rarer occurrence in cortical neurons. This is in line with previous super-resolution reports describing the co-localization with synaptic markers of other components of the SUMOylation machinery.
34717917 | Digitoxin promotes apoptosis and inhibits proliferation and migration by reducing HIF-1alpha and STAT3 in KRAS mutant human colon cancer cells. Colon cancer patients with mutant KRAS are resistant to cetuximab, an antibody directed against the epidermal growth factor receptor. New treatment options are needed to improve survival in patients with KRAS mutated colorectal cancer. Digitoxin is a cardiotonic drug, which has been demonstrated to exhibit anticancer effects in a number of cancers. However, the anticancer mechanisms of digitoxin in KRAS mutant human colon cancer cells remain elusive. Our result demonstrated that digitoxin but not cetuximab markedly decreased the expression of hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha), signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and p-STAT3 protein in KRAS mutant colon cancer cells. Further analysis revealed that digitoxin inhibited HIF-1alpha protein synthesis, without affecting the expression level of HIF-1alpha mRNA or degradation of HIF-1alpha protein. The phosphorylation levels of ribosomal protein S6 kinase (p70S6K) and eIF4E binding protein-1 (4E-BP1) were significantly suppressed by digitoxin. Digitoxin inhibited the expression and activation of STAT3 through upregulation of phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome ten (PTEN), SHP1 and protein inhibitors of activated STAT3 (PIAS3) and direct binding to STAT3. Meanwhile, digitoxin inhibited HIF-1alpha in STAT3-independent manner in KRAS mutant colon cancer cells. Moreover, digitoxin promoted apoptosis and inhibited proliferation and migration, which was potentially mediated by suppression of HIF-1alpha and STAT3. We also found that digitoxin administration inhibited tumor growth in a mouse xenograft model. Taken together, our findings highlight the therapeutic potential of digitoxin for the treatment of cetuximab-resistant human colon cancer.
35256747 | Tricyclic antidepressants target FKBP51 SUMOylation to restore glucocorticoid receptor activity. FKBP51 is an important inhibitor of the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) signaling. High FKBP51 levels are associated to stress-related disorders, which are linked to GR resistance. SUMO conjugation to FKBP51 is necessary for FKBP51's inhibitory action on GR. The GR/FKBP51 pathway is target of antidepressant action. Thus we investigated if these drugs could inhibit FKBP51 SUMOylation and therefore restore GR activity. Screening cells using Ni2+ affinity and in vitro SUMOylation assays revealed that tricyclic antidepressants- particularly clomipramine- inhibited FKBP51 SUMOylation. Our data show that clomipramine binds to FKBP51 inhibiting its interaction with PIAS4 and therefore hindering its SUMOylation. The inhibition of FKBP51 SUMOylation decreased its binding to Hsp90 and GR facilitating FKBP52 recruitment, and enhancing GR activity. Reduction of PIAS4 expression in rat primary astrocytes impaired FKBP51 interaction with GR, while clomipramine could no longer exert its inhibitory action. This mechanism was verified in vivo in mice treated with clomipramine. These results describe the action of antidepressants as repressors of FKBP51 SUMOylation as a molecular switch for restoring GR sensitivity, thereby providing new potential routes of antidepressant intervention.
37197494 | Bufalin suppresses esophageal squamous cell carcinoma progression by activating the PIAS3/STAT3 signaling pathway. Background: Esophageal cancer, especially esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC), is a common malignant tumor of the digestive tract. Bufalin is an effective anti-tumor compound. However, little is known about the regulatory mechanisms of Bufalin in ESCC. To investigate the effect and molecular mechanism of Bufalin on the proliferation, migration and invasion of ESCC cells will provide a more reliable basis for the application of Bufalin in clinical tumor therapy. Methods: First, the half-inhibitory concentration (IC50) of Bufalin was evaluated by Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assays. In vitro, the effects of Bufalin on the proliferation of the ECA109 cells was measured using CCK-8 and 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine assays. Wound-healing and transwell assays were used to evaluate the effects of Bufalin on the migration and invasion of the ECA109 cells. Further, to determine the mechanisms underlying the Bufalin-mediated suppression of cell progression in ESCC, total RNA was extracted from negative control (NC) and Bufalin treated cells to perform RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) to screen for abnormally expressed genes. In vivo, the ECA 109 cells were subcutaneously injected into BALB/c nude mice to determine the effects of Bufalin on tumor cell proliferation. The protein inhibitor of activated signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (PIAS3), signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3), and phosphorylated STAT3 (p-STAT3) protein expression levels in the ECA109 cells were detected by Western blot. Results: The CCK-8 assays showed that the IC50 of Bufalin was 200 nM. The proliferation, migration, and invasion ability of the ECA109 cells was significantly inhibited in the Bufalin group in a concentration-dependent manner. In vivo, the Xenograft tumor model showed that Bufalin decreased the tumor volume and weight of the subcutaneous tumors. The RNA-seq results showed that the expression of PIAS3 was upregulated in the Bufalin group. Additionally, down-regulation of PIAS3 decreased the inhibition of STAT3, thereby increasing p-STAT3 expression. Finally, PIAS3 knockdown reversed the inhibitory effects of Bufalin on the proliferation, migration, and invasion of the ECA109 cells. Conclusions: Bufalin may inhibit the proliferation, migration, and invasion of the ECA109 cells through the PIAS3/STAT3 signaling pathway.
37392066 | Protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 (PIAS3) attenuates psoriasis and associated inflammation. Psoriasis is a common chronic inflammatory multisystem disease accompanied by hyperproliferation and inflammation of epidermal keratinocytes. Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) is constitutively activated and plays an important role in epidermal keratinocytes of human psoriatic skin lesions. In this study, we investigated the effects of an endogenous STAT3 inhibitor, a protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 (PIAS3), on the proliferation and inflammation of psoriatic cells. The expression of PIAS3 in psoriatic tissues and healthy skin was analyzed using the Gene Expression Omnibus database and clinical samples. The human immortalized epidermal (HaCaT) cells were used to establish an in vitro psoriasis-like cell model. 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-5-(3-carboxymethoxyphenyl)-2-(4-sulfophenyl)-2H-thethrazolium (MTS) assay was used to detect cell proliferation. Flow cytometry was used to determine apoptosis levels. Real-time PCR, western blotting, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) were used to detect the expression levels of related factors. Furthermore, a mouse model of imiquimod (IMQ)-induced psoriatic dermatitis was established to verify the in vitro experimental results. The results showed that the mRNA and protein expression levels of PIAS3 were lower in psoriatic lesions than in normal tissues. PIAS3 inhibited the proliferation and promoted apoptosis of M5-induced HaCaT cells. Simultaneously, the mRNA and protein expression levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-8 (IL-8), and keratin 17 (K17) were significantly decreased and that of p53 was increased, thereby inhibiting the inflammatory response and promoting apoptosis. PIAS3 inhibited the transcription activity of STAT3 and noncanonical nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB). Furthermore, PIAS3 attenuated IMQ-induced psoriasis-like inflammation in mice. Our findings suggest that PIAS3 plays an important role in psoriasis by regulating the STAT3/NF-kappaB signaling pathway and p53. The lack of PIAS3 may represent a novel mechanism underlying the pathogenesis of psoriasis.
37586220 | Deficiency of protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 exacerbates atherosclerosis by modulating VSMC phenotypic switching. BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Phenotypic switching of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) plays an essential role in the development of atherosclerosis. Protein inhibitor of activated STAT (Pias) regulates VSMCs phenotype via acting as sumo E3 ligase to promote protein sumoylation. Our previous study indicated that Pias3 expression decreased in atherosclerotic lesions. Therefore, this study aimed to explore the role of Pias3 on VSMCs phenotype switching during atherosclerosis. METHODS: ApoE-/- and ApoE-/-Pias3-/- double-deficient mice were fed with high-fat/high-cholesterol diet to induce atherosclerosis. Aorta tissues and primary VSMCs were collected to assess plaque formation and VSMCs phenotype. In vitro, Pias3 was overexpressed in A7r5, a VSMCs cell line, by transfection with Pias3 plasmid. Real-time quantitative PCR, immunoblotting, immunoprecipitation, were used to analyze the effect of Pias3 on VSMCs phenotypic switching. RESULTS: Pias3 deficiency significantly exacerbated atherosclerotic plaque formation and promoted VSMCs phenotypic switching to a synthetic state within lesion. In vitro, overexpressing Pias3 in VSMCs increased the expression of contractile markers (myosin heavy chain 11, calponin 1), while it decreased the level of synthetic marker (vimentin). Additionally, Pias3 overexpression blocked PDGF-BB-induced VSMCs proliferation and migration. Immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry results showed that Pias3 enhanced sumoylation and ubiquitination of vimentin, and shortened its half-life. Moreover, the ubiquitination level of vimentin was impaired by 2-D08, a sumoylation inhibitor. This suggests that Pias3 might accelerate the ubiquitination-degradation of vimentin by promoting its sumoylation. CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that Pias3 might ameliorate atherosclerosis progression by suppressing VSMCs phenotypic switching and reducing vimentin protein stability.
38082192 | Upregulation of tumor suppressor PIAS3 by Honokiol promotes tumor cell apoptosis via selective inhibition of STAT3 tyrosine 705 phosphorylation. The natural product Honokiol exhibits robust antitumor activity against a range of cancers, and it has also received approval to undergo phase I clinical trial testing. We confrmed that honokiol can promote the apoptotic death of tumor cells through cell experiments. Then siRNA constructs specific for PIAS3, PIAS3 overexpression plasmid and the mutation of the STAT3 Tyr705 residue were used to confirm the mechanism of Honokiol-induced apoptosis. Finally, we confrmed that honokiol can promote PIAS3 upregulation, in turn suppressing STAT3 Tyr705 phosphorylation through the in vivo and in vitro experiments. Honokiol was ultimately found to reduce tumor cell viability by promoting apoptosis through a mechanism dependent on the ability of Honokiol to promote PIAS3 upregulation and the selective inhibition of p-STAT3 (Tyr705) without affecting p-STAT3 (Ser727) or p-STAT1 (Tyr701) levels. PIAS3 knockdown and overexpression in tumor cells altered STAT3 activation and associated DNA binding activity through the control of Tyr705 phosphorylation via PIAS3-STAT3 complex formation, ultimately shaping Honokiol-induced tumor cell apoptosis. Honokiol was also confirmed to significantly prolong the survival of mice bearing xenograft tumors in a PIAS3-dependent fashion. Together, these findings highlight a novel pathway through which Honokiol can promote PIAS3 upregulation, in turn suppressing STAT3 Tyr705 phosphorylation and promoting the apoptotic death of tumor cells.
15123625 | Transcriptional activity of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma is modulated by SUMO-1 modification. Covalent modification of many transcription factors with SUMO-1 is emerging as a key role of trans-activational regulation. Here, we demonstrate that peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) gamma, which is a ligand-activated nuclear receptor, is modified by SUMO-1. Sumoylation of PPARgamma mainly occurs at a lysine residue within the activation function 1 domain. Furthermore, we show that the PIAS family proteins, PIAS1 and PIASxbeta, function as E3 ligases (ubiquitin-protein isopeptide ligase) for PPARgamma. PPARgamma interacts directly with PIASxbeta in a ligand-independent manner. Analysis using a PPARgamma mutant with a disrupted sumoylation site shows that modification of PPARgamma by SUMO-1 represses its transcriptional activity. Interestingly, PIASxbeta and Ubc9 enhance the transcriptional activity of PPARgamma independent of PPARgamma sumoylation. Furthermore, PPARgamma ligand-induced apoptosis in a human hepatoblastoma cell line, HepG2, is significantly enhanced by ectopic production of the sumoylation-mutant PPARgamma. These results suggest that the PPARgamma-dependent transactivation pathway seems to be modulated by SUMO-1 modification and may serve as a novel target for apoptosis-induction therapy in cancer cells.
15713642 | The DEAD-box protein DP103 (Ddx20 or Gemin-3) represses orphan nuclear receptor activity via SUMO modification. Structural analysis of nuclear receptor subfamily V orphan nuclear receptors suggests that ligand-independent mechanisms must regulate this subclass of receptors. Here, we report that steroidogenic factor 1 (SF-1) and liver receptor homolog 1 are repressed via posttranslational SUMO modification at conserved lysines within the hinge domain. Indeed, mutating these lysines or adding the SUMO isopeptidase SENP1 dramatically increased both native and Gal4-chimera receptor activities. The mechanism by which SUMO conjugation attenuates SF-1 activity was found to be largely histone deacetylase independent and was unaffected by the AF2 corepressor Dax1. Instead, our data suggest that SUMO-mediated repression involves direct interaction of the DEAD-box protein DP103 with sumoylated SF-1. Of potential E3-SUMO ligase candidates, PIASy and PIASxalpha strongly promoted SF-1 sumoylation, and addition of DP103 enhanced both PIAS-dependent receptor sumoylation and SF-1 relocalization to discrete nuclear bodies. Taken together, we propose that DEAD-box RNA helicases are directly coupled to transcriptional repression by protein sumoylation.
15956336 | Disruption of the murine PIASx gene results in reduced testis weight. PIASx belongs to the PIAS protein family, the members of which modulate activities of several transcription factors and act as E3 ligases in the sumoylation pathway. The PIASx gene is highly expressed in testis, suggesting a role in spermatogenesis. To investigate the function of PIASx in vivo, we have disrupted the PIASx gene in mice. Interestingly, the knockout mice were viable and fertile. Despite the normal fertility, the testis weight of the mutant animals was reduced and their number of apoptotic testicular cells was increased. Also, the sperm count of mutant mice tended to be reduced, but the quality of their sperm cells was normal. No significant changes were observed in the serum levels of LH and FSH or in the intratesticular testosterone concentration between the knockout animals and their wild-type littermates. Compensatory increases in other PIAS protein mRNAs were not observed in the knockout mice. These results imply that PIASx is required quantitatively rather than qualitatively for normal spermatogenesis.
22745796 | SUMOylation represses Nanog expression via modulating transcription factors Oct4 and Sox2. Nanog is a pivotal transcription factor in embryonic stem (ES) cells and is essential for maintaining the pluripotency and self-renewal of ES cells. SUMOylation has been proved to regulate several stem cell markers' function, such as Oct4 and Sox2. Nanog is strictly regulated by Oct4/Sox2 heterodimer. However, the direct effects of SUMOylation on Nanog expression remain unclear. In this study, we reported that SUMOylation repressed Nanog expression. Depletion of Sumo1 or its conjugating enzyme Ubc9 increased the expression of Nanog, while high SUMOylation reduced its expression. Interestingly, we found that SUMOylation of Oct4 and Sox2 regulated Nanog in an opposing manner. SUMOylation of Oct4 enhanced Nanog expression, while SUMOylated Sox2 inhibited its expression. Moreover, SUMOylation of Oct4 by Pias2 or Sox2 by Pias3 impaired the interaction between Oct4 and Sox2. Taken together, these results indicate that SUMOylation has a negative effect on Nanog expression and provides new insights into the mechanism of SUMO modification involved in ES cells regulation.
22824807 | Identification of Pold2 as a novel interaction partner of protein inhibitor             of activated STAT2. Pold2 is a subunit of the DNA polymerase delta complex, encoding a protein involved in DNA replication and repair. In this study, using a yeast two-hybrid screening technique and the common cDNA fragment of the mouse PIAS2 as a bait, Pold2 was found to interact with PIAS2. A direct interaction between Pold2 and PIAS2 was confirmed by direct yeast two-hybrid. In vivo evidence of Pold2 association with PIAS2 was obtained by co-immunoprecipitation using HEK-293 cells. Subcellular localization studies demonstrated that Pold2 and PIAS2 were partially co-localized in mammalian cells. Collectively, our results suggest that Pold2 interacts under physiological conditions with PIAS2.
25434787 | Ubiquitously expressed transcript is a novel interacting protein of protein inhibitor of activated signal transducer and activator of transcription 2. Protein inhibitor of activated signal transducer and activator of transcription 2 (PIAS2) is a member of the PIAS protein family. This protein family modulates the activity of several transcription factors and acts as an E3 ubiquitin ligase in the sumoylation pathway. To improve understanding of the physiological roles of PIAS2, the current study used a yeast two-hybrid system to screen mouse stem cell cDNA libraries for proteins that interact with PIAS2. The screening identified an interaction between PIAS2 and ubiquitously expressed transcript (UXT). UXT, also termed androgen receptor trapped clone-27, is an alpha-class prefoldin-type chaperone that acts as a coregulator for various transcription factors, including nuclear factor-kappaB and androgen receptor (AR). A direct interaction between PIAS2 and UXT was confirmed by direct yeast two-hybrid analysis. In vitro evidence of the association of UXT with PIAS2 was obtained by co-immunoprecipitation. Colocalization between PIAS2 and UXT was identified in the nucleus and cytoplasm of HEK 293T and human cervical carcinoma HeLa cells. The results of the current study suggested that UXT is a binding protein of PIAS2, and interaction between PIAS2 and UXT may be important for the transcriptional activation of AR.
26175529 | ZBTB17 (MIZ1) Is Important for the Cardiac Stress Response and a Novel Candidate Gene for Cardiomyopathy and Heart Failure. BACKGROUND: Mutations in sarcomeric and cytoskeletal proteins are a major cause of hereditary cardiomyopathies, but our knowledge remains incomplete as to how the genetic defects execute their effects. METHODS AND RESULTS: We used cysteine and glycine-rich protein 3, a known cardiomyopathy gene, in a yeast 2-hybrid screen and identified zinc-finger and BTB domain-containing protein 17 (ZBTB17) as a novel interacting partner. ZBTB17 is a transcription factor that contains the peak association signal (rs10927875) at the replicated 1p36 cardiomyopathy locus. ZBTB17 expression protected cardiac myocytes from apoptosis in vitro and in a mouse model with cardiac myocyte-specific deletion of Zbtb17, which develops cardiomyopathy and fibrosis after biomechanical stress. ZBTB17 also regulated cardiac myocyte hypertrophy in vitro and in vivo in a calcineurin-dependent manner. CONCLUSIONS: We revealed new functions for ZBTB17 in the heart, a transcription factor that may play a role as a novel cardiomyopathy gene.
26390157 | TCR-induced sumoylation of the kinase PKC-theta controls T cell synapse organization and T cell activation. Sumoylation regulates many cellular processes, but its role in signaling via the T cell antigen receptor (TCR) remains unknown. We found that the kinase PKC-theta was sumoylated upon costimulation with antigen or via the TCR plus the coreceptor CD28, with Lys325 and Lys506 being the main sumoylation sites. We identified the SUMO E3 ligase PIASxbeta as a ligase for PKC-theta. Analysis of primary mouse and human T cells revealed that sumoylation of PKC-theta was essential for T cell activation. Desumoylation did not affect the catalytic activity of PKC-theta but inhibited the association of CD28 with PKC-theta and filamin A and impaired the assembly of a mature immunological synapse and central co-accumulation of PKC-theta and CD28. Our findings demonstrate that sumoylation controls TCR-proximal signaling and that sumoylation of PKC-theta is essential for the formation of a mature immunological synapse and T cell activation. 
30232347 | Molecular hydrogen protects against ischemia-reperfusion injury in a mouse fatty liver model via regulating HO-1 and Sirt1 expression. Fatty liver has lower tolerance against ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury in liver operations, including liver transplantation. Seeking to ameliorate liver injury following I/R in fatty liver, we examined the protective effect of hydrogen (H2) saline on I/R liver injury in a methionine and choline-deficient plus high fat (MCDHF) diet-induced fatty liver mouse model. Saline containing 7 ppm H2 was administrated during the process of I/R. Livers were obtained and analyzed. Primary hepatocytes and Kupffer cells (KCs) were obtained from fatty liver and subjected to hypoxia/reoxygenation. Apoptosis-related proteins and components of the signaling pathway were analyzed after treatment with hydrogen gas. The MCDHF I/R group showed higher levels of AST and ALT in serum, TUNEL-positive apoptotic cells, F4/80 immunopositive cells, mRNA levels of inflammatory cytokines, constituents of the signaling pathway, pro-apoptotic molecules in liver, and KCs and/or primary hepatocytes, compared to the control group. In contrast, H2 treatment significantly suppressed the signs of I/R injury in fatty liver. Moreover, the expression of Bcl-2, HO-1, and Sirt1 in liver, KCs, and hepatocytes by hydrogen gas were increased, whereas caspase activation, Bax, and acetylation of p53 were suppressed by hydrogen gas. These results demonstrated that H2 treatment ameliorated I/R liver injury in a fatty liver model by reducing hepatocyte apoptosis, inhibiting macrophage activation and inflammatory cytokines, and inducing HO-1 and Sirt1 expression. Taken togather, treatment with H2 saline may have a protective effect and safe therapeutic activity during I/R events, such as in liver transplantation with fatty liver.
30420889 | The Myc/Max/Mxd Network Is a Target of Mutated Flt3 Signaling in Hematopoietic Stem Cells in Flt3-ITD-Induced Myeloproliferative Disease. Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) has poor prognosis due to various mutations, e.g., in the FLT3 gene. Therefore, it is important to identify pathways regulated by the activated Flt3 receptor for the discovery of new therapeutic targets. The Myc network of oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes is involved in mechanisms regulating proliferation and survival of cells, including that of the hematopoietic system. In this study, we evaluated the expression of the Myc oncogenes and Mxd antagonists in hematopoietic stem cell and myeloid progenitor populations in the Flt3-ITD-knockin myeloproliferative mouse model. Our data shows that the expression of Myc network genes is changed in Flt3-ITD mice compared with the wild type. Mycn is increased in multipotent progenitors and in the pre-GM compartment of myeloid progenitors in the ITD mice while the expression of several genes in the tumor suppressor Mxd family, including Mxd1, Mxd2, and Mxd4, is concomitantly downregulated, as well as the expression of the Mxd-related gene Mnt and the transcriptional activator Miz-1. LSKCD150+CD48- hematopoietic long-term stem cells are decreased in the Flt3-ITD cells while multipotent progenitors are increased. Of note, PKC412-mediated inhibition of Flt3-ITD signaling results in downregulation of cMyc and upregulation of the Myc antagonists Mxd1, Mxd2, and Mxd4. Our data provides new mechanistic insights into downstream alterations upon aberrant Flt3 signaling and rationale for combination therapies for tyrosine kinase inhibitors with Myc antagonists in treating AML.
31273062 | Deletion of the Miz-1 POZ Domain Increases Efficacy of Cytarabine Treatment in T- and B-ALL/Lymphoma Mouse Models. Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is an aggressive blood cancer that mainly affects children. Relapse rates are high and toxic chemotherapies that block DNA replication and induce DNA damage lead to health problems later in life, underlining the need for improved therapies. MYC is a transcription factor that is hyperactive in a large proportion of cancers including leukemia but is difficult to target in therapy. We show that ablation of the function of the BTB/POZ domain factor Zbtb17 (Miz-1), an important cofactor of c-Myc, significantly delayed T- and B-ALL/lymphoma in mice and interfered with the oncogenic transcriptional activity of c-Myc. Leukemic cells that still emerged in this system activated DNA replication pathways that could be targeted by current chemotherapeutic drugs such as cytarabine. Acute ablation of the Miz-1 POZ domain enhanced the effect of cytarabine treatment. The combined treatment was effective in both Emu-Myc and Notch ICN-driven leukemia models and prolonged survival of tumor-bearing animals by accelerating apoptosis of leukemic cells. These observations suggest that targeting MIZ-1 could render current ALL chemotherapies more effective, with a better outcome for patients. SIGNIFICANCE: Ablation of the POZ domain of Miz-1 perturbs its interaction with c-MYC and delays the generation of T- and B-cell leukemias and lymphomas.
31468277 | Hydrogen water alleviates obliterative airway disease in mice. OBJECTIVE: Bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome arising from chronic airway inflammation is a leading cause of death following lung transplantation. Several studies have suggested that inhaled hydrogen can protect lung grafts from ischemia-reperfusion injury via anti-inflammatory and -oxidative mechanisms. We investigated whether molecular hydrogen-saturated water can preserve lung allograft function in a heterotopic tracheal allograft mouse model of obliterative airway disease METHODS: Obliterative airway disease was induced by heterotopically transplanting tracheal allografts from BALB/c donor mice into C57BL/6 recipient mice, which were subsequently administered hydrogen water (10 ppm) or tap water (control group) (n = 6 each) daily without any immunosuppressive treatment. Histological and immunohistochemical analyses were performed on days 7, 14, and 21. RESULTS: Hydrogen water decreased airway occlusion on day 14. No significant histological differences were observed on days 7 or 21. The cluster of differentiation 4/cluster of differentiation 3 ratio in tracheal allografts on day 14 was higher in the hydrogen water group than in control mice. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay performed on day 7 revealed that hydrogen water reduced the level of the pro-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-6 and increased that of forkhead box P3 transcription factor, suggesting an enhancement of regulatory T cell activity. CONCLUSIONS: Hydrogen water suppressed the development of mid-term obliterative airway disease in a mouse tracheal allograft model via anti-oxidant and -inflammatory mechanisms and through the activation of Tregs. Thus, hydrogen water is a potential treatment strategy for BOS that can improve the outcome of lung transplant patients.
32209106 | DDX39B interacts with the pattern recognition receptor pathway to inhibit NF-kappaB and sensitize to alkylating chemotherapy. BACKGROUND: Nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) plays a prominent role in promoting inflammation and resistance to DNA damaging therapy. We searched for proteins that modulate the NF-kappaB response as a prerequisite to identifying novel factors that affect sensitivity to DNA damaging chemotherapy. RESULTS: Using streptavidin-agarose pull-down, we identified the DExD/H-box RNA helicase, DDX39B, as a factor that differentially interacts with kappaB DNA probes. Subsequently, using both RNA interference and CRISPR/Cas9 technology, we demonstrated that DDX39B inhibits NF-kappaB activity by a general mechanism involving inhibition of p65 phosphorylation. Mechanistically, DDX39B mediates this effect by interacting with the pattern recognition receptor (PRR), LGP2, a pathway that required the cellular response to cytoplasmic double-stranded RNA (dsRNA). From a functional standpoint, loss of DDX39B promoted resistance to alkylating chemotherapy in glioblastoma cells. Further examination of DDX39B demonstrated that its protein abundance was regulated by site-specific sumoylation that promoted its poly-ubiquitination and degradation. These post-translational modifications required the presence of the SUMO E3 ligase, PIASx-beta. Finally, genome-wide analysis demonstrated that despite the link to the PRR system, DDX39B did not generally inhibit interferon-stimulated gene expression, but rather acted to attenuate expression of factors associated with the extracellular matrix, cellular migration, and angiogenesis. CONCLUSIONS: These results identify DDX39B, a factor with known functions in mRNA splicing and nuclear export, as an RNA-binding protein that blocks a subset of the inflammatory response. While these findings identify a pathway by which DDX39B promotes sensitization to DNA damaging therapy, the data also reveal a mechanism by which this helicase may act to mitigate autoimmune disease.
32249212 | SUMOylation of the transcription factor ZFHX3 at Lys-2806 requires SAE1, UBC9, and PIAS2 and enhances its stability and function in cell proliferation. SUMOylation is a posttranslational modification (PTM) at a lysine residue and is crucial for the proper functions of many proteins, particularly of transcription factors, in various biological processes. Zinc finger homeobox 3 (ZFHX3), also known as AT motif-binding factor 1 (ATBF1), is a large transcription factor that is active in multiple pathological processes, including atrial fibrillation and carcinogenesis, and in circadian regulation and development. We have previously demonstrated that ZFHX3 is SUMOylated at three or more lysine residues. Here, we investigated which enzymes regulate ZFHX3 SUMOylation and whether SUMOylation modulates ZFHX3 stability and function. We found that SUMO1, SUMO2, and SUMO3 each are conjugated to ZFHX3. Multiple lysine residues in ZFHX3 were SUMOylated, but Lys-2806 was the major SUMOylation site, and we also found that it is highly conserved among ZFHX3 orthologs from different animal species. Using molecular analyses, we identified the enzymes that mediate ZFHX3 SUMOylation; these included SUMO1-activating enzyme subunit 1 (SAE1), an E1-activating enzyme; SUMO-conjugating enzyme UBC9 (UBC9), an E2-conjugating enzyme; and protein inhibitor of activated STAT2 (PIAS2), an E3 ligase. Multiple analyses established that both SUMO-specific peptidase 1 (SENP1) and SENP2 deSUMOylate ZFHX3. SUMOylation at Lys-2806 enhanced ZFHX3 stability by interfering with its ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation. Functionally, Lys-2806 SUMOylation enabled ZFHX3-mediated cell proliferation and xenograft tumor growth of the MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cell line. These findings reveal the enzymes involved in, and the functional consequences of, ZFHX3 SUMOylation, insights that may help shed light on ZFHX3's roles in various cellular and pathophysiological processes.
33151932 | A complementary study approach unravels novel players in the pathoetiology of Hirschsprung disease. Hirschsprung disease (HSCR, OMIM 142623) involves congenital intestinal obstruction caused by dysfunction of neural crest cells and their progeny during enteric nervous system (ENS) development. HSCR is a multifactorial disorder; pathogenetic variants accounting for disease phenotype are identified only in a minority of cases, and the identification of novel disease-relevant genes remains challenging. In order to identify and to validate a potential disease-causing relevance of novel HSCR candidate genes, we established a complementary study approach, combining whole exome sequencing (WES) with transcriptome analysis of murine embryonic ENS-related tissues, literature and database searches, in silico network analyses, and functional readouts using candidate gene-specific genome-edited cell clones. WES datasets of two patients with HSCR and their non-affected parents were analysed, and four novel HSCR candidate genes could be identified: ATP7A, SREBF1, ABCD1 and PIAS2. Further rare variants in these genes were identified in additional HSCR patients, suggesting disease relevance. Transcriptomics revealed that these genes are expressed in embryonic and fetal gastrointestinal tissues. Knockout of these genes in neuronal cells demonstrated impaired cell differentiation, proliferation and/or survival. Our approach identified and validated candidate HSCR genes and provided further insight into the underlying pathomechanisms of HSCR.
33439102 | Hydrogen-rich water protects against liver injury in nonalcoholic steatohepatitis through HO-1 enhancement via IL-10 and Sirt 1 signaling. Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) could progress to hepatic fibrosis in the absence of effective control. The purpose of our experiment was to investigate the protective effect of drinking water with a high concentration of hydrogen, namely, hydrogen-rich water (HRW), on mice with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease to elucidate the mechanism underlying the therapeutic action of molecular hydrogen. The choline-supplemented, l-amino acid-defined (CSAA) or the choline-deficient, l-amino acid-defined (CDAA) diet for 20 wk was used to induce NASH and fibrosis in the mice model and simultaneously treated with the high-concentration 7-ppm HRW for different periods (4 wk, 8  wk, and 20 wk). Primary hepatocytes were stimulated by palmitate to mimic liver lipid metabolism during fatty liver formation. Primary hepatocytes were cultured in a closed vessel filled with 21% O2 + 5% CO2 + 3.8% H2 and N2 as the base gas to verify the response of primary hepatocytes in a high concentration of hydrogen gas in vitro. Mice in the CSAA + HRW group had lower serum levels of alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and milder histological damage. The inflammatory cytokines were expressed at lower levels in the HRW group than in the CSAA group. Importantly, HRW reversed hepatocyte fatty acid oxidation and lipogenesis as well as hepatic inflammation and fibrosis in preexisting hepatic fibrosis specimens. Molecular hydrogen inhibits the lipopolysaccharide-induced production of inflammation cytokines through increasing heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) expression. Furthermore, HRW improved hepatic steatosis in the CSAA + HRW group. Sirtuin 1 (Sirt1) induction by molecular hydrogen via the HO-1/adenosine monophosphate activated protein kinase (AMPK)/peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha)/peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR-gamma) pathway suppresses palmitate-mediated abnormal fat metabolism. Orally administered HRW suppressed steatosis induced by CSAA and attenuated fibrosis induced by CDAA, possibly by reducing oxidative stress and the inflammation response.NEW & NOTEWORTHY The mRNA expression of inflammatory cytokines in the HRW group was lower than in the CSAA group. HRW reversed hepatocyte apoptosis as well as hepatic inflammation and fibrosis in NASH specimens. Molecular hydrogen inhibits LPS-induced inflammation via an HO-1/interleukin 10 (IL-10)-independent pathway. HRW improved hepatic steatosis in the CSAA + HRW group. Sirt1 induction by molecular hydrogen via the HO-1/AMPK/PPARalpha/PPARgamma pathway suppresses palmitate-mediated abnormal fat metabolism.
33567272 | Cardiolipin-mediated PPARgamma S112 phosphorylation impairs IL-10 production and inflammation resolution during bacterial pneumonia. Bacterial pneumonia is a global healthcare burden, and unwarranted inflammation is suggested as an important cause of mortality. Optimum levels of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 are essential to reduce inflammation and improve survival in pneumonia. Elevated levels of the mitochondrial-DAMP cardiolipin (CL), reported in tracheal aspirates of pneumonia patients, have been shown to block IL-10 production from lung MDSCs. Although CL-mediated K107 SUMOylation of PPARgamma has been suggested to impair this IL-10 production, the mechanism remains elusive. We identify PIAS2 to be the specific E3-SUMOligase responsible for this SUMOylation. Moreover, we identify a concomitant CL-mediated PPARgamma S112 phosphorylation, mediated by JNK-MAPK, to be essential for PIAS2 recruitment. Furthermore, using a clinically tested peptide inhibitor targeting JNK-MAPK, we blocked these post-translational modifications (PTMs) of PPARgamma and rescued IL-10 expression, improving survival in murine pneumonia models. Thus, we explore the mechanism of mito-DAMP-mediated impaired lung inflammation resolution and propose a therapeutic strategy targeting PPARgamma PTMs.
33639371 | Hydrogen Gas Therapy Attenuates Inflammatory Pathway Signaling in Septic Mice. BACKGROUND: Molecular hydrogen (H2) has been used in clinical cases. However, there are few studies of H2 therapy to treat sepsis, and anti-inflammatory mechanisms of H2 are mostly unknown. We aimed to confirm effects of H2 therapy on sepsis and reveal its therapeutic mechanism via RNA sequencing in multiple organs in septic mice. METHODS: Nine-week-old C57BL/6 male mice underwent cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) or sham procedure. Subsequently, the CLP model received immediate +- continuous inhalation of 7% H2. Mice were observed for a week to assess survival rates. Serum inflammatory cytokines were evaluated at 24 h after CLP procedure. Liver, intestine, and lungs in CLP mice receiving 24-h +- H2 therapy were assessed by RNA sequencing. Data were analyzed with Ingenuity Pathways Analysis (QIAGEN Inc). RESULTS: Seven-day survival rate in septic mice was significantly improved in the H2 inhalation group compared with that in the control group (75% versus 40%, P < 0.05). H2 treatment attenuated serum interleukin-6 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha levels at 24 h after CLP, and blood glucose levels were maintained in the H2-treated group. In RNA sequencing, canonical pathway analysis revealed inactivity of various inflammatory signaling pathways, for example, acute phase response signaling and STAT3 pathways, in the liver and intestine in the CLP model after 24-h H2 inhalation. We detected significantly decreased expressions of upstream regulator genes such as the CD14 antigen gene in the liver and various cytokine receptor genes in the intestine and lungs in the H2-treated group. CONCLUSIONS: These findings may contribute to clarifying the mechanism of action of H2 therapy in sepsis.
34234281 | PIAS2-mediated blockade of IFN-beta signaling: a basis for sporadic Parkinson disease dementia. Familial Parkinson disease (PD) is associated with rare genetic mutations, but the etiology in most patients with sporadic (s)PD is largely unknown, and the basis for its progression to dementia (sPDD) is poorly characterized. We have identified that loss of IFNbeta or IFNAR1, the receptor for IFNalpha/beta, causes pathological and behavioral changes resembling PDD, prompting us to hypothesize that dysregulated genes in IFNbeta-IFNAR signaling pathway predispose one to sPD. By transcriptomic analysis, we found defective neuronal IFNbeta-IFNAR signaling, including particularly elevated PIAS2 associated with sPDD. With meta-analysis of GWASs, we identified sequence variants in IFNbeta-IFNAR-related genes in sPD patients. Furthermore, sPDD patients expressed higher levels of PIAS2 mRNA and protein in neurons. To determine its function in brain, we overexpressed PIAS2 under a neuronal promoter, alone or with human alpha-synuclein, in the brains of mice, which caused motor and cognitive impairments and correlated with intraneuronal phosphorylated (p)alpha-synuclein accumulation and dopaminergic neuron loss. Ectopic expression of neuronal PIAS2 blocked mitophagy, increased the accumulation of senescent mitochondrial and oxidative stress, as evidenced by excessive oxDJ1 and 8OHdG, by inactivating ERK1/2-P53 signaling. Conversely, PIAS2 knockdown rescued the clinicopathological manifestations of PDD in Ifnb-/- mice on restoring mitochondrial homeostasis, oxidative stress, and pERK1/2-pP53 signaling. The regulation of JAK-STAT2-PIAS2 signaling was crucial for neurite outgrowth and neuronal survival and excitability and thus might prevent cognitive impairments. Our findings provide insights into the progression of sPD and dementia and have implications for new therapeutic approaches.
34889988 | Infection and protection responses of deletion mutants of non-structural proteins of foot-and-mouth disease virus serotype Asia1 in guinea pigs. The development of a negative marker vaccine against the foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV) will enhance the capabilities to differentiate vaccinated from infected animals and move forward in the progressive control pathway for the control of FMD. Here, we report the development of mutant FMDV of Asia1 with partial deletion of non-structural proteins 3A and 3B and characterization of their infectivity and protection response in the guinea pig model. The deleted FMDV Asia1/IND/63/1972 mutants, pAsiaDelta3A and pAsiaDelta3A3B1 were constructed from the full-length infectious clone pAsiaWT, the viable virus was rescued, and the genetic stability of the mutants was confirmed by 20 monolayer passages in BHK21 cells. The mutant Asia1 viruses showed comparable growth pattern and infectivity with that of AsiaWT in the cell culture. However, the AsiaDelta3A3B1 virus showed smaller plaque and lower virus titer with reduced infectivity in the suckling mice. In guinea pigs, the AsiaDelta3A3B1 virus failed to induce the disease, whereas the AsiaDelta3A virus induced typical secondary lesions of FMD. Vaccination with inactivated Asia1 mutant viruses induced neutralizing antibody response that was significantly lower than that of the parent virus on day 28 post-vaccination (dpv) in guinea pigs (P < 0.05). Furthermore, challenging the vaccinated guinea pigs with the homologous vaccine strain of FMDV Asia1 conferred complete protection. It is concluded that the mutant AsiaDelta3A3B1 virus has the potential to replace the wild-type virus for use as a negative marker vaccine after assessing the vaccine worth attributes in suspension cell and protective efficacy study in cattle.Key points  Deletion mutant viruses of FMDV Asia1, developed by PCR-mediated mutagenesis of NSP 3A and 3B1, were genetically stable.  The growth kinetics and antigenic relatedness of the mutant viruses were comparable with that of the wild-type virus.  Vaccination of guinea pigs with the deletion mutant viruses conferred complete protection upon challenge with the homologous virus.
35179955 | Muscle mitochondrial remodeling by intermittent glucocorticoid drugs requires an intact circadian clock and muscle PGC1alpha. Exogenous glucocorticoids interact with the circadian clock, but little attention is paid to the timing of intake. We recently found that intermittent once-weekly prednisone improved nutrient oxidation in dystrophic muscle. Here, we investigated whether dosage time affected prednisone effects on muscle bioenergetics. In mice treated with once-weekly prednisone, drug dosing in the light-phase promoted nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) levels and mitochondrial function in wild-type muscle, while this response was lost with dark-phase dosing. These effects depended on a normal circadian clock since they were disrupted in muscle from [Brain and muscle Arnt-like protein-1 (Bmal1)]-knockout mice. The light-phase prednisone pulse promoted BMAL1-dependent glucocorticoid receptor recruitment on noncanonical targets, including Nampt and Ppargc1a [peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma coactivator 1alpha (PGC1alpha)]. In mice with muscle-restricted inducible PGC1alpha ablation, bioenergetic stimulation by light-phase prednisone required PGC1alpha. These results demonstrate that glucocorticoid \chronopharmacology\ for muscle bioenergetics requires an intact clock and muscle PGC1alpha activity.
35340039 | Cellular heterogeneity and transcriptomic profiles during intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma initiation and progression. BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC) is not fully investigated, and how stromal cells contribute to ICC formation is poorly understood. We aimed to uncover ICC origin, cellular heterogeneity, and critical modulators during ICC initiation/progression, and to decipher how fibroblast and endothelial cells in the stromal compartment favor ICC progression. APPROACH AND RESULTS: We performed single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) using AKT/Notch intracellular domain-induced mouse ICC tissues at early, middle, and late stages. We analyzed the transcriptomic landscape, cellular classification and evolution, and intercellular communication during ICC initiation/progression. We confirmed the findings using quantitative real-time PCR, western blotting, immunohistochemistry or immunofluorescence, and gene knockout/knockdown analysis. We identified stress-responding and proliferating subpopulations in late-stage mouse ICC tissues and validated them using human scRNA-seq data sets. By integrating weighted correlation network analysis and protein-protein interaction through least absolute shrinkage and selection operator regression, we identified zinc finger, MIZ-type containing 1 (Zmiz1) and Y box protein 1 (Ybx1) as core transcription factors required by stress-responding and proliferating ICC cells, respectively. Knockout of either one led to the blockade of ICC initiation/progression. Using two other ICC mouse models (YAP/AKT, KRAS/p19) and human ICC scRNA-seq data sets, we confirmed the orchestrating roles of Zmiz1 and Ybx1 in ICC occurrence and development. In addition, hes family bHLH transcription factor 1, cofilin 1, and inhibitor of DNA binding 1 were identified as driver genes for ICC. Moreover, periportal liver sinusoidal endothelial cells could differentiate into tip endothelial cells to promote ICC development, and this was Dll4-Notch4-Efnb2 signaling-dependent. CONCLUSIONS: Stress-responding and ICC proliferating subtypes were identified, and Zmiz1 and Ybx1 were revealed as core transcription factors in these subtypes. Fibroblast-endothelial cell interaction promotes ICC development.
35363257 | Intermittent prednisone treatment in mice promotes exercise tolerance in obesity through adiponectin. The fat-muscle communication regulates metabolism and involves circulating signals like adiponectin. Modulation of this cross-talk could benefit muscle bioenergetics and exercise tolerance in conditions like obesity. Chronic daily intake of exogenous glucocorticoids produces or exacerbates metabolic stress, often leading to obesity. In stark contrast to the daily intake, we discovered that intermittent pulses of glucocorticoids improve dystrophic muscle metabolism. However, the underlying mechanisms, particularly in the context of obesity, are still largely unknown. Here we report that in mice with diet-induced obesity, intermittent once-weekly prednisone increased total and high-molecular weight adiponectin levels and improved exercise tolerance and energy expenditure. These effects were dependent upon adiponectin, as shown by genetic ablation of the adipokine. Upregulation of Adipoq occurred through the glucocorticoid receptor (GR), as this effect was blocked by inducible GR ablation in adipocytes. The treatment increased the muscle metabolic response of adiponectin through the CAMKK2-AMPK cascade. Our study demonstrates that intermittent glucocorticoids produce healthful metabolic remodeling in diet-induced obesity.
35453704 | Myc-Interacting Zinc Finger Protein 1 (Miz-1) Is Essential to Maintain Homeostasis and Immunocompetence of the B Cell Lineage. Aging of the immune system is described as a progressive loss of the ability to respond to immunologic stimuli and is commonly referred to as immunosenescence. B cell immunosenescence is characterized by a decreased differentiation rate in the bone marrow and accumulation of antigen-experienced and age-associated B cells in secondary lymphoid organs (SLOs). A specific deletion of the POZ-domain of the transcription factor Miz-1 in pro-B cells, which is known to be involved in bone marrow hematopoiesis, leads to premature aging of the B cell lineage. In mice, this causes a severe reduction in bone marrow-derived B cells with a drastic decrease from the pre-B cell stage on. Further, mature, naive cells in SLOs are reduced at an early age, while post-activation-associated subpopulations increase prematurely. We propose that Miz-1 interferes at several key regulatory checkpoints, critical during B cell aging, and counteracts a premature loss of immunocompetence. This enables the use of our mouse model to gain further insights into mechanisms of B cell aging and it can significantly contribute to understand molecular causes of impaired adaptive immune responses to counteract loss of immunocompetence and restore a functional immune response in the elderly.
35717025 | Impact of circadian time of dosing on cardiomyocyte-autonomous effects of glucocorticoids. OBJECTIVE: Mitochondrial capacity is critical to adapt the high energy demand of the heart to circadian oscillations and diseased states. Glucocorticoids regulate the circadian cycle of energy metabolism, but little is known about how circadian timing of exogenous glucocorticoid dosing directly regulates heart metabolism through cardiomyocyte-autonomous mechanisms. While chronic once-daily intake of glucocorticoids promotes metabolic stress and heart failure, we recently discovered that intermittent once-weekly dosing of exogenous glucocorticoids promoted muscle metabolism in normal and obese skeletal muscle. However, the effects of glucocorticoid intermittence on heart metabolism and heart failure remain unknown. Here we investigated the extent to which circadian time of dosing regulates the effects of the glucocorticoid prednisone in heart metabolism and function in conditions of single pulse or chronic intermittent dosing. METHODS AND RESULTS: In WT mice, we found that prednisone improved cardiac content of NAD+ and ATP with light-phase dosing (ZT0), while the effects were blocked by dark-phase dosing (ZT12). The drug effects on mitochondrial function were cardiomyocyte-autonomous, as shown by inducible cardiomyocyte-restricted glucocorticoid receptor (GR) ablation, and depended on an intact cardiomyocyte clock, as shown by inducible cardiomyocyte-restricted ablation of Brain and Muscle ARNT-like 1 (BMAL1). Conjugating time-of-dosing with chronic intermittence, we found that once-weekly prednisone improved metabolism and function in heart after myocardial injury dependent on circadian time of intake, i.e. with light-phase but not dark-phase dosing. CONCLUSIONS: Our study identifies cardiac-autonomous mechanisms through which circadian-specific intermittent dosing reconverts glucocorticoid drugs to metabolic boosters for the heart.
36251411 | Integrative transcriptome analysis reveals TEKT2 and PIAS2 involvement in diabetic nephropathy. Cell heterogeneity has impeded the accurate interpretation of the bulk transcriptome data from patients with diabetic nephropathy (DN). We performed an analysis by integrating bulk and single-cell transcriptome datasets to uncover novel mechanisms leading to DN, especially in the podocytes. Microdissected glomeruli and tubules transcriptome datasets were selected from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO). Then the consistency between datasets was evaluated. The analysis of the bulk dataset and single-nucleus RNA dataset was integrated to reveal the cell type-specific responses to DN. The candidate genes were validated in kidney tissues from DN patients and diabetic mice. We compared 4 glomerular and 4 tubular datasets and found considerable discrepancies among datasets regarding the deferentially expressed genes (DEGs), involved signaling pathways, and the hallmark enrichment profiles. Deconvolution of the bulk data revealed that the variations in cell-type proportion contributed greatly to this discrepancy. The integrative analysis uncovered that the dysregulation of spermatogenesis-related genes, including TEKT2 and PIAS2, was involved in the development of DN. Importantly, the mRNA level of TEKT2 was negatively correlated with the mRNA levels of NPHS1 (r = -.66, p < .0001) and NPHS2 (r = -.85, p < .0001) in human diabetic glomeruli. Immunostaining confirmed that the expression of TEKT2 and PIAS2 were up-regulated in podocytes of DN patients and diabetic mice. Knocking down TEKT2 resisted high glucose-induced cytoskeletal remodeling and down-regulation of NPHS1 protein in the cultured podocyte. In conclusion, the integrative strategy can help us efficiently use the publicly available transcriptomics resources. Using this approach and combining it with classical research methods, we identified TEKT2 and PIAS2, two spermatogenesis-related genes involved in the pathogenesis of DN. Furthermore, TEKT2 is involved in this pathogenesis by regulating the podocyte cytoskeleton.
36401044 | Effects of Glucocorticoids in Murine Models of Duchenne and Limb-Girdle Muscular Dystrophy. In vivo testing of glucocorticoid steroids in dystrophic mice offers important insights in benefits and risks of those drugs in the pathological context of muscular dystrophy. Frequency of dosing changes the spectrum of glucocorticoid effects on muscle and metabolic homeostasis. Here, we describe a combination of non-invasive and invasive methods to quantitatively discriminate the specific effects of intermittent (once-weekly) versus mainstay (once-daily) regimens on muscle fibrosis, muscle function, and metabolic homeostasis in murine models of Duchenne and limb-girdle muscular dystrophies.
36845536 | Comprehensive Analyses of Muscle Function, Lean and Muscle Mass, and Myofiber Typing in Mice. Skeletal muscle disorders commonly affect the function and integrity of muscles. Novel interventions bring new potential to rescue or alleviate the symptoms associated with these disorders. In vivo and in vitro testing in mouse models allows quantitative evaluation of the degree of muscle dysfunction, and therefore, the level of potential rescue/restoration by the target intervention. Several resources and methods are available to assess muscle function and lean and muscle mass, as well as myofiber typing as separate concepts; however, a technical resource unifying these methods is missing. Here, we provide detailed procedures for analyzing muscle function, lean and muscle mass, and myofiber typing in a comprehensive technical resource paper. Graphical abstract.
37095099 | BCR-ABL triggers a glucose-dependent survival program during leukemogenesis through the suppression of TXNIP. Imatinib is highly effective in the treatment of chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML), but the primary and acquired imatinib resistance remains the big hurdle. Molecular mechanisms for CML resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibitors, beyond point mutations in BCR-ABL kinase domain, still need to be addressed. Here, we demonstrated that thioredoxin-interacting protein (TXNIP) is a novel BCR-ABL target gene. Suppression of TXNIP was responsible for BCR-ABL triggered glucose metabolic reprogramming and mitochondrial homeostasis. Mechanistically, Miz-1/P300 complex transactivates TXNIP through the recognition of TXNIP core promoter region, responding to the c-Myc suppression by either imatinib or BCR-ABL knockdown. TXNIP restoration sensitizes CML cells to imatinib treatment and compromises imatinib resistant CML cell survival, predominantly through the blockage of both glycolysis and glucose oxidation which results in the mitochondrial dysfunction and ATP production. In particular, TXNIP suppresses expressions of the key glycolytic enzyme, hexokinase 2 (HK2), and lactate dehydrogenase A (LDHA), potentially through Fbw7-dependent c-Myc degradation. In accordance, BCR-ABL suppression of TXNIP provided a novel survival pathway for the transformation of mouse bone marrow cells. Knockout of TXNIP accelerated BCR-ABL transformation, whereas TXNIP overexpression suppressed this transformation. Combination of drug inducing TXNIP expression with imatinib synergistically kills CML cells from patients and further extends the survival of CML mice. Thus, the activation of TXNIP represents an effective strategy for CML treatment to overcome resistance.
37400551 | RUNX3 inactivates oncogenic MYC through disruption of MYC/MAX complex and subsequent recruitment of GSK3beta-FBXW7 cascade. MYC is one of the most commonly dysregulated proto-oncogenes in cancer. MYC promotes cancer initiation and maintenance by regulating multiple biological processes, such as proliferation and stem cell function. Here, we show that developmental regulator RUNX3 targets MYC protein for rapid degradation through the glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta-F-box/WD repeat-containing protein 7 (GSK3beta-FBXW7) proteolytic pathway. The evolutionarily conserved Runt domain of RUNX3 interacts directly with the basic helix-loop-helix leucine zipper of MYC, resulting in the disruption of MYC/MAX and MYC/MIZ-1 interactions, enhanced GSK3beta-mediated phosphorylation of MYC protein at threonine-58 and its subsequent degradation via the ubiquitin-proteasomal pathway. We therefore uncover a previously unknown mode of MYC destabilization by RUNX3 and provide an explanation as to why RUNX3 inhibits early-stage cancer development in gastrointestinal and lung mouse cancer models.
37839636 | ZMIZ1 upregulation of TET3-mediated hydroxymethylation induces M2 polarization of Kupffer cells in hepatocellular carcinogenesis by mediating Notch1/c-Myc signaling. DNA hydroxymethylation mediated by the tet family of methylcytosine dioxygenases (TETs) represents a crucial epigenetic modification that manipulates gene expression in numerous biological processes. This study focuses on the effect of TET3 on the polarization of Kupffer cells (KCs) and its connection to the development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). TET3 is abundant in KCs and its knockdown induced an M2-M1 phenotype shift, resulting in the suppression of viability, migration, and invasion of co-cultured HCC cells. Additionally, it inhibited the tumorigenesis of HCC cells in nude mice. Downstream targets of TET3 were predicted using bioinformatics. TET3 mediated DNA hydroxymethylation of zinc finger MIZ-type containing 1 (ZMIZ1) promoter. The ZMIZ1 protein interacted with notch receptor 1 (Notch1) protein to activate transcription of c-Myc. Silencing of ZMIZ1 in KCs similarly suppressed M2 polarization of KCs and malignant phenotype of co-cultured HCC cells. However, these changes were counteracted by the overexpression of either Notch1 or c-Myc overexpression in KCs. In summary, this study demonstrates that TET3-mediated hydroxymethylation of ZMIZ1 enhances hepatocellular carcinogenesis by promoting M2 skewing of KCs through the Notch1/c-Myc axis.
37905062 | Glucocorticoid intermittence coordinates rescue of energy and mass in aging-related sarcopenia through the myocyte-autonomous PGC1alpha-Lipin1 transactivation. Sarcopenia burdens the elderly population through loss of muscle energy and mass, yet treatments to functionally rescue both parameters are missing. The glucocorticoid prednisone remodels muscle metabolism based on frequency of intake, but its mechanisms in sarcopenia are unknown. We found that once-weekly intermittent prednisone rescued muscle quality in aged 24-month-old mice to levels comparable to young 4-month-old mice. We discovered an age- and sex-independent glucocorticoid receptor transactivation program in muscle encompassing PGC1alpha and its co-factor Lipin1. Treatment coordinately improved mitochondrial abundance through isoform 1 and muscle mass through isoform 4 of the myocyte-specific PGC1alpha, which was required for the treatment-driven increase in carbon shuttling from glucose oxidation to amino acid biogenesis. We also probed the myocyte-specific Lipin1 as non-redundant factor coaxing PGC1alpha upregulation to the stimulation of both oxidative and anabolic capacities. Our study unveils an aging-resistant druggable program in myocytes to coordinately rescue energy and mass in sarcopenia.
38187555 | Light-phase prednisone promotes glucose oxidation in heart through novel transactivation targets of cardiomyocyte-specific GR and KLF15. Circadian time of intake determines the cardioprotective outcome of glucocorticoids in normal and infarcted hearts. The cardiomyocyte-specific glucocorticoid receptor (GR) is genetically required to preserve normal heart function in the long-term. The GR co-factor KLF15 is a pleiotropic regulator of cardiac metabolism. However, the cardiomyocyte-autonomous metabolic targets of the GR-KLF15 concerted epigenetic action remain undefined. Here we report that circadian time of intake determines the activation of a transcriptional and functional glucose oxidation program in heart by the glucocorticoid prednisone with comparable magnitude between sexes. We overlayed transcriptomics, epigenomics and cardiomyocyte-specific inducible ablation of either GR or KLF15. Downstream of a light-phase prednisone stimulation in mice, we found that both factors are non-redundantly required in heart to transactivate the adiponectin receptor expression (Adipor1) and promote insulin-stimulated glucose uptake, as well as transactivate the mitochondrial pyruvate complex expression (Mpc1/2) and promote pyruvate oxidation. We then challenged this time-specific drug effect in obese diabetic db/db mice, where the heart shows insulin resistance and defective glucose oxidation. Opposite to dark-phase dosing, light-phase prednisone rescued glucose oxidation in db/db cardiomyocytes and diastolic function in db/db hearts towards control-like levels with sex-independent magnitude of effect. In summary, our study identifies novel cardiomyocyte-autonomous metabolic targets of the GR-KLF15 concerted program mediating the time-specific cardioprotective effects of glucocorticoids on cardiomyocyte glucose utilization.
38586891 | Insulin-like growth factor 1 knockdown attenuates high glucose-induced podocyte injury by promoting the JAK2/STAT signalling-mediated autophagy. PURPOSE: Podocyte injury plays a crucial role in the development of diabetic nephropathy (DN). A high serum level of insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) has been observed in patients with DN. This paper is to study the role and mechanism of IGF-1 in high glucose (HG)-induced podocyte injury. METHODS: Mouse podocytes MPC-5 were treated with HG to establish a DN model in vitro. db/db diabetic mice and db/m nondiabetic mice were used to evaluate the IGF-1 role in vivo. Western blotting was used for measuring protein levels of IGF-1 receptor, Janus kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK/STAT) signalling pathway-related markers, podocyte markers podocin and nephrin, apoptosis- and autophagy-related markers in MPC-5 cells. Immunofluorescence staining was implemented for measuring the expression of nephrin and the autophagy marker LC3. Flow cytometry was used for detecting podocyte apoptosis. RESULTS: IGF-1 expression was increased in HG-stimulated MPC-5 cells and the kidney of db/db diabetic mice compared with corresponding controls. Knocking down IGF-1 downregulated IGF-1R and inhibited JAK2/STAT signalling pathway in HG-treated MPC-5 cells and db/db diabetic mice. IGF-1 silencing attenuated HG-induced podocyte injury, apoptosis and reduction in autophagy. Activating the JAK2/STAT signalling pathway or inhibiting autophagy reversed the effects of IGF-1 silencing on HG-treated MPC-5 cells. CONCLUSION: Knocking down IGF-1 alleviates HG-induced podocyte injury and apoptosis by inactivating the JAK2/STAT signalling pathway and enhancing autophagy.
38588989 | Exocarpium Citri Grandis ameliorates LPS-induced acute lung injury by suppressing inflammation, NLRP3 inflammasome, and ferroptosis. ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Exocarpium Citri Grandis (ECG), the epicarp of C. grandis 'Tomentosa' which is also known as Hua-Ju-Hong in China, has been widely used for thousands of years to treat inflammatory lung disorders such as asthma, and cough as well as dispelling phlegm. However, its underlying pharmacological mechanisms in acute lung injury (ALI) remain unclear. AIM OF THE STUDY: To explore the therapeutic effect of ECG on ALI and reveal the potential mechanisms based on experimental techniques in vivo and in vitro. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Lipopolysaccharides (LPS) induced ALI in mice and induced RAW 264.7 cell inflammatory model were established to investigate the pharmacodynamics of ECG. ELISA kits, commercial kits, Western Blot, qPCR, Hematoxylin and Eosin (H&E) staining, immunohistochemistry, and immunofluorescence technologies were used to evaluate the pharmacological mechanisms of ECG in ameliorating ALI. RESULTS: ECG significantly attenuated pulmonary edema in LPS-stimulated mice and decreased the levels of IL1beta, IL6, and TNF-alpha in serum and BALF, reduced MDA and iron concentration as well as increased SOD and GSH levels in lung tissues, and also decreased the ROS level in BALF and Lung tissue. Further pharmacological mechanism studies showed that ECG significantly inhibited mRNA expression of inflammatory signaling factors and chemokines, and down-regulated the expression of TLR4, MyD88, NF-kappaB p65, NF-kappaB p-p65 (S536), COX2, iNOS, Txnip, NLRP3, ASC, Caspase-1, JAK1, p-JAK1 (Y1022), JAK2, STAT1, p-STAT1 (S727), STAT3, p-STAT3 (Y705), STAT4, p-STAT4 (Y693), and Keap1, and also up-regulated the expression of Trx-1, Nrf2, HO-1, NQO1, GPX4, PCBP1, and SLC40A1. In the LPS-induced RAW264.7 cell inflammatory model, ECG showed similar results to animal experiments. CONCLUSIONS: Our results showed that ECG alleviated ALI by inhibiting TLR4/MyD88/NF-kappaB p65 and JAK/STAT signaling pathway-mediated inflammatory response, Txnip/NLRP3 signaling pathway-mediated inflammasome activation, and regulating Nrf2/GPX4 axis-mediated ferroptosis. Our findings provide an experimental basis for the application of ECG.
38593156 | Miz1 represses type I interferon production and limits viral clearance during influenza A virus infection. Type I interferons (IFNs) are critical for the antiviral immune response, and fine-tuning type I IFN production is critical to effectively clearing viruses without causing harmful immunopathology. We showed that the transcription factor Miz1 epigenetically repressed the expression of genes encoding type I IFNs in mouse lung epithelial cells by recruiting histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1) to the promoters of Ifna and Ifnb. Loss of function of Miz1 resulted in augmented production of these type I IFNs during influenza A virus (IAV) infection, leading to improved viral clearance in vitro and in vivo. IAV infection induced Miz1 accumulation by promoting the cullin-4B (CUL4B)-mediated ubiquitylation and degradation of the E3 ubiquitin ligase Mule (Mcl-1 ubiquitin ligase E3; also known as Huwe1 or Arf-BP1), which targets Miz1 for degradation. As a result, Miz1 accumulation limited type I IFN production and favored viral replication. This study reveals a previously unrecognized function of Miz1 in regulating antiviral defense and a potential mechanism for influenza viruses to evade host immune defense.
38597446 | [High LINC00626 expression promotes esophagogastric junction adenocarcinoma metastasis: the mediating role of the JAK1/STAT3/KHSRP axis]. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the role of JAK1/STAT3/KHSRP axis in mediating the regulatory effect of LINC00626 on progression of esophagogastric junction adenocarcinoma. METHODS: We collected surgical tumor and adjacent tissue specimens from 64 patients with esophagogastric junction adenocarcinoma and examined the expression levels of LINC00626 and KHSRP. qRT-PCR was used to detect the expressions of LINC00626 and KHSRP in 6 esophageal adenocarcinoma cell lines (OE-19, TE-7, Bic-1, Flo-1, SK-GT-4, and BE-3) and a normal esophageal epithelial cell line (HET-1A). OE-19 and TE-7 cell lines with stable LINC00626 knockdown and FLO-1 and SK-GT-4 cells stably overexpressing LINC00626 were constructed by lentiviral transfection, and the changes in proliferation, migration and invasion of the cells were evaluated using Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assay and Transwell migration/invasion assay. The expressions of KHSRP and JAK/STAT pathway proteins in the transfected cells were detected with Western blotting. The effects of LINC006266 knockdown and overexpression on subcutaneous tumor formation and lung metastasis of OE-19 and FLO-1 cell xenografts were tested in nude mice. RESULTS: The expression levels of LINC00626 and KHSRP were significantly increased in esophagogastric junction adenocarcinoma tissues and in esophageal adenocarcinoma cells. LINC00626 knockdown obviously inhibited the proliferation, migration and invasion of esophageal adenocarcinoma cells in vitro and decreased their tumor formation and lung metastasis abilities in nude mice, while overexpression of LINC00626 produced the opposite effects. In esophageal adenocarcinoma cells, LINC0626 knockdown significantly decreased and LINC00626 overexpression strongly enhanced the phosphorylation of JAK1 and STAT3. CONCLUSION: High LINC00626 expression promotes esophageal-gastric junction adenocarcinoma metastasis by activating the JAK1/STAT3/KHSRP signal axis.
38597583 | Interleukin-4 inhibits the hypothalamic appetite control by modulating the insulin-AKT and JAK-STAT signaling in leptin mutant mice. Our previous research identified interleukin-4 (IL-4) as a key regulator of glucose/lipid metabolism, circulatory leptin levels, and insulin action, suggesting its potential as a therapeutic target for obesity and related complications. This study aimed to further elucidate the role of IL-4 in regulating hypothalamic appetite-controlling neuropeptides using leptin dysfunctional Leptin145E/145E mice as the experimental model. IL-4 significantly reduces body weight, food intake, and serum glucose levels. Our data demonstrated that IL-4 exhibits multiple functions in regulating hypothalamic appetite control, including downregulating orexigenic agouti-related peptide and neuropeptide Y levels, promoting expression of anorexigenic proopiomelanocortin, alleviating microenvironmental hypothalamic inflammation, enhancing leptin and insulin pathway, and attenuating insulin resistance. Furthermore, IL-4 promotes uncoupling protein 1 expression of white adipose tissue (WAT), suggesting its role in triggering WAT-beige switch. In summary, this study uncovers novel function of IL-4 in mediating food-intake behaviors and metabolic efficiency by regulating hypothalamic appetite-control and WAT browning activities. These findings support the therapeutic potential of targeting hypothalamic inflammation and reducing adiposity through IL-4 intervention for tackling the pandemic increasing prevalence of obesity and associated metabolic disorders.
38621611 | Ruxolitinib-loaded cytokine nanosponge alleviated the cytokine storm and dampened macrophage overactivation for the treatment of hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis. Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) is a life-threatening clinical syndrome characterized by a positive feedback loop between cytokine storm and macrophages and lymphocytes overactivation, which could serve as a valid therapeutic target for HLH treatment. In this study, the clinically extensively used JAK1/2 inhibitor ruxolitinib was encapsulated into macrophage membrane-coated nanoparticles (M@NP-R) with high drug-loading efficiency for targeted HLH treatment. In vitro and in vivo studies demonstrated that M@NP-R not only efficiently adsorbed extracellular proinflammation cytokines, like IFN-gamma and IL-6 to alleviate the cytokine storm, but also effectively dampened macrophage activation and proliferation by intracellular JAK/STAT signaling pathway inhibition. M@NP-R treatment significantly ameliorated the clinical and laboratory manifestations of HLH in mouse models, including trilineage cytopenia, hypercytokinemia, organomegaly, hepatorenal dysfunction, and tissue inflammation. Importantly, M@NP-R significantly enhanced the survival of the lethal HLH mice. Altogether, M@NP-R successfully blocked the positive feedback loop between the cytokine storm and macrophage overactivation by depleting extracellular inflammatory cytokines and inhibiting the intracellular JAK/STAT signaling pathway, both of which worked synergistically in HLH treatment. As ruxolitinib has already been extensively used in clinics with favorable safety, and M@NP is biodegradable and highly biocompatible, M@NP-R has good prospects for clinical translation.
38625657 | Viperin inhibits interferon-gamma production to promote Mycobacterium tuberculosis survival by disrupting TBK1-IKKepsilon-IRF3-axis and JAK-STAT signaling. OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN: As an interferon-inducible protein, Viperin has broad-spectrum antiviral effects and regulation of host immune responses. We aim to investigate how Viperin regulates interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) production in macrophages to control Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) infection. METHODS: We use Viperin deficient bone-marrow-derived macrophage (BMDM) to investigate the effects and machines of Viperin on Mtb infection. RESULTS: Viperin inhibited IFN-gamma production in macrophages and in the lung of mice to promote Mtb survival. Further insight into the mechanisms of Viperin-mediated regulation of IFN-gamma production revealed the role of TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1), the TAK1-dependent inhibition of NF-kappa B kinase-epsilon (IKKepsilon), and interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3). Inhibition of the TBK1-IKKepsilon-IRF3 axis restored IFN-gamma production reduced by Viperin knockout in BMDM and suppressed intracellular Mtb survival. Moreover, Viperin deficiency activated the Janus kinase (JAK)-signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) signaling pathway, which promoted IFN-gamma production and inhibited Mtb infection in BMDM. Additionally, a combination of the anti-TB drug INH treatment in the absence of Viperin resulted in further IFN-gamma production and anti-TB effect. CONCLUSIONS: This study highlights the involvement of TBK1-IKKepsilon-IRF3 axis and JAK-STAT signaling pathways in Viperin-suppressed IFN-gamma production in Mtb infected macrophages, and identifies a novel mechanism of Viperin on negatively regulating host immune response to Mtb infection.
38637842 | Discovery of a novel and highly selective JAK3 inhibitor as a potent hair growth promoter. JAK-STAT signalling pathway inhibitors have emerged as promising therapeutic agents for the treatment of hair loss. Among different JAK isoforms, JAK3 has become an ideal target for drug discovery because it only regulates a narrow spectrum of gammac cytokines. Here, we report the discovery of MJ04, a novel and highly selective 3-pyrimidinylazaindole based JAK3 inhibitor, as a potential hair growth promoter with an IC50 of 2.03 nM. During in vivo efficacy assays, topical application of MJ04 on DHT-challenged AGA and athymic nude mice resulted in early onset of hair regrowth. Furthermore, MJ04 significantly promoted the growth of human hair follicles under ex-vivo conditions. MJ04 exhibited a reasonably good pharmacokinetic profile and demonstrated a favourable safety profile under in vivo and in vitro conditions. Taken together, we report MJ04 as a highly potent and selective JAK3 inhibitor that exhibits overall properties suitable for topical drug development and advancement to human clinical trials.
38641823 | Listeria-vectored cervical cancer vaccine candidate strains reduce MDSCs via the JAK-STAT signaling pathway. BACKGROUND: Immunosuppressive status is prevalent in cancer patients and increases the complexity of tumor immunotherapy. It has been found that Listeria-vectored tumor vaccines had the potential ability of two-side regulatory effect on the immune response during immunotherapy. RESULTS: The results show that the combined immunotherapy with the LM E6E7 and LI E6E7, the two cervical cancer vaccine candidate strains constructed by our lab, improves the antitumor immune response and inhibits the suppressive immune response in tumor-bearing mice in vivo, confirming the two-sided regulatory ability of the immune response caused by Listeria-vectored tumor vaccines. The immunotherapy reduces the expression level of myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs)-inducing factors and then inhibits the phosphorylation level of STAT3 protein, the regulatory factor of MDSCs differentiation, to reduce the MDSCs formation ability. Moreover, vaccines reduce the expression of functional molecules associated with MDSCs may by inhibiting the phosphorylation level of the JAK1-STAT1 and JAK2-STAT3 pathways in tumor tissues to attenuate the immunosuppressive function of MDSCs. CONCLUSIONS: Immunotherapy with Listeria-vectored cervical cancer vaccines significantly reduces the level and function of MDSCs in vivo, which is the key point to the destruction of immunosuppression. The study for the first to elucidate the mechanism of breaking the immunosuppression.
38646919 | miR-146a-/- mice model reveals that NF-kappaB inhibition reverts inflammation-driven myelofibrosis-like phenotype. Emerging evidence shows the crucial role of inflammation (particularly NF-kappaB pathway) in the development and progression of myelofibrosis (MF), becoming a promising therapeutic target. Furthermore, tailoring treatment with currently available JAK inhibitors (such as ruxolitinib or fedratinib) does not modify the natural history of the disease and has important limitations, including cytopenias. Since recent studies have highlighted the role of miR-146a, a negative regulator of the NF-kappaB pathway, in the pathogenesis of MF; here we used miR-146a-/- (KO) mice, a MF-like model lacking driver mutations, to investigate whether pharmacological inhibition of JAK/STAT and/or NF-kappaB pathways may reverse the myelofibrotic phenotype of these mice. Specifically, we tested the JAK1/2 inhibitor, ruxolitinib; the NF-kappaB inhibitor via IKKalpha/beta, BMS-345541; both inhibitors in combination; or a dual inhibitor of both pathways (JAK2/IRAK1), pacritinib. Although all treatments decreased spleen size and partially recovered its architecture, only NF-kappaB inhibition, either using BMS-345541 (alone or in combination) or pacritinib, resulted in a reduction of extramedullary hematopoiesis, bone marrow (BM) fibrosis and osteosclerosis, along with an attenuation of the exacerbated inflammatory state (via IL-1beta and TNFalpha). However, although dual inhibitor improved anemia and reversed thrombocytopenia, the combined therapy worsened anemia by inducing BM hypoplasia. Both therapeutic options reduced NF-kappaB and JAK/STAT signaling in a context of JAK2V617F-driven clonal hematopoiesis. Additionally, combined treatment reduced both COL1A1 and IL-6 production in an in vitro model mimicking JAK2-driven fibrosis. In conclusion, NF-kappaB inhibition reduces, in vitro and in vivo, disease burden and BM fibrosis, which could provide benefits in myelofibrosis patients.
18683816 | The impact of tyrosine kinase 2 (Tyk2) on the proteome of murine macrophages and their response to lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Tyrosine kinase 2 (Tyk2) belongs to the Janus kinase (Jak) family and is involved in signalling via a number of cytokines. Tyk2-deficient mice are highly resistant to lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced endotoxin shock. Macrophages are key players in the pathogenesis of endotoxin shock and, accordingly, defects in the LPS responses of Tyk2(-/-) macrophages have been reported. In the present study, the molecular role of Tyk2 is investigated in more detail using a proteomics approach. 2-D DIGE was applied to compare protein patterns from wild-type and Tyk2(-/-) macrophages and revealed significant differences in protein expression patterns between the genotypes before and after LPS treatment. Twenty-one proteins deriving from 25 differentially expressed spots were identified by MALDI/ESI MS. Among them, we show for N-myc interactor that its mRNA transcription/stability is positively influenced by Tyk2. In contrast, LPS-induced expression of plasminogen activator 2 protein but not mRNA is strongly enhanced in the absence of Tyk2. Our data furthermore suggest an influence of Tyk2 on the subcellular distribution of elongation factor 2 and on LPS-mediated changes in the peroxiredoxin 1 spot pattern. Thus, our results imply regulatory roles of Tyk2 at multiple levels and establish novel connections between Tyk2 and several cellular proteins.
24936061 | A combined \omics\ approach identifies N-Myc interactor as a novel cytokine-induced regulator of IRE1 protein and c-Jun N-terminal kinase in pancreatic beta cells. Type 1 diabetes is an autoimmune disease with a strong inflammatory component. The cytokines interleukin-1beta and interferon-gamma contribute to beta cell apoptosis in type 1 diabetes. These cytokines induce endoplasmic reticulum stress and the unfolded protein response (UPR), contributing to the loss of beta cells. IRE1alpha, one of the UPR mediators, triggers insulin degradation and inflammation in beta cells and is critical for the transition from \physiological\ to \pathological\ UPR. The mechanisms regulating inositol-requiring protein 1alpha (IRE1alpha) activation and its signaling for beta cell \adaptation,\ \stress response,\ or \apoptosis\ remain to be clarified. To address these questions, we combined mammalian protein-protein interaction trap-based IRE1alpha interactome and functional genomic analysis of human and rodent beta cells exposed to pro-inflammatory cytokines to identify novel cytokine-induced regulators of IRE1alpha. Based on this approach, we identified N-Myc interactor (NMI) as an IRE1alpha-interacting/modulator protein in rodent and human pancreatic beta cells. An increased expression of NMI was detected in islets from nonobese diabetic mice with insulitis and in rodent or human beta cells exposed in vitro to the pro-inflammatory cytokines interleukin-1beta and interferon-gamma. Detailed mechanistic studies demonstrated that NMI negatively modulates IRE1alpha-dependent activation of JNK and apoptosis in rodent and human pancreatic beta cells. In conclusion, by using a combined omics approach, we identified NMI induction as a novel negative feedback mechanism that decreases IRE1alpha-dependent activation of JNK and apoptosis in cytokine-exposed beta cells
27012186 | N-Myc-interacting protein (NMI) negatively regulates epithelial-mesenchymal transition by inhibiting the acetylation of NF-kappaB/p65. The epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) plays an essential role in embryonic development, wound healing, tissue regeneration, organ fibrosis, and tumor progression. However, the mechanisms underlying this process are poorly understood. Many signaling pathways, including the NF-kappaB signaling pathway, trigger EMT during development and differentiation. In the present study, we report that N-Myc interactor (NMI) inhibits EMT progression by suppressing transcriptional activities of NF-kappaB in human gastric cancer cells. We show that the expression of NMI is significantly reduced in invasive gastric cancer cells and gastric cancer tissues. Overexpression of NMI inhibited cell migration and invasion, and this inhibition was enhanced after TNF-alpha stimulation. Tumorigenicity assay in nude mice support the notion that NMI inhibits EMT in cancer cells. Mechanistically, NMI promotes the interaction between NF-kappaB/p65 and histone deacetylases (HDACs) and inhibits the acetylation and transcriptional activity of p65. The expression of p65 rescues NMI-mediated inhibition of EMT and the inhibition of the acetylation of p65 mediated by NMI is HDACs-dependent. Taken together, these findings suggest that NMI can suppress tumor invasion and metastasis by inhibiting NF-kappaB pathways, providing an alternative mechanism for EMT inhibition in stomach neoplasm.
30521142 | Interleukin-32epsilon induces caspase-independent apoptosis mediated by N-Myc interactor in macrophages infected with Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) is the pathogen responsible for tuberculosis, a leading cause of illness and death worldwide. Growing evidence suggests that the proinflammatory cytokine IL-32 plays a major role in host defences against pathogens such as Mtb. IL-32 exists in six alternatively spliced isoforms, but antituberculosis effects have been reported only for some of them. In this study, we examined the effect of all six IL-32 isoforms on Mtb replication in the murine macrophage cell line RAW 264.7. Compared with cells transfected with the other isoforms, IL-32epsilon-transfected cells exhibited the strongest antituberculosis effect and the highest rate of Mtb-induced apoptosis. Of note, this apoptosis pathway was independent of caspase-3 activation. Instead, N-Myc interactor (NMI), an inhibitor of Wnt signalling, was a key player in IL-32epsilon-mediated apoptosis by inhibiting Wnt/beta-catenin signalling and thereby activating c-Myc-mediated apoptosis. Moreover, we identified two cis-acting elements that are binding sites for the transcriptional regulators paired box 6 (PAX6) and transcription factor CP2 (TFCP2) in the promoter of NMI and these elements proved essential for IL-32epsilon-induced upregulation of Nmi expression. Furthermore, IL-32epsilon-mediated activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase p38 also contributed to NMI upregulation. In conclusion, our results demonstrate that Mtb infection-induced IL-32epsilon-mediated apoptosis in macrophages plays a key role in host defences against Mtb.
33759814 | Functional genomics study of protein inhibitor of activated STAT1 in mouse hippocampal neuronal cells revealed by RNA sequencing. Protein inhibitor of activated STAT1 (PIAS1), a small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) E3 ligase, was considered to be an inhibitor of STAT1 by inhibiting the DNA-binding activity of STAT1 and blocking STAT1-mediated gene transcription in response to cytokine stimulation. PIAS1 has been determined to be involved in modulating several biological processes such as cell proliferation, DNA damage responses, and inflammatory responses, both in vivo and in vitro. However, the role played by PIAS1 in regulating neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), has not been determined. In our study, significantly different expression levels of PIAS1 between normal controls and AD patients were detected in four regions of the human brain. Based on a functional analysis of Pias1 in undifferentiated mouse hippocampal neuronal HT-22 cells, we observed that the expression levels of several AD marker genes could be inhibited by Pias1 overexpression. Moreover, the proliferation ability of HT-22 cells could be promoted by the overexpression of Pias1. Furthermore, we performed RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) to evaluate and quantify the gene expression profiles in response to Pias1 overexpression in HT-22 cells. As a result, 285 significantly dysregulated genes, including 79 upregulated genes and 206 downregulated genes, were identified by the comparison of Pias1/+ cells with WT cells. Among these genes, five overlapping genes, including early growth response 1 (Egr1), early growth response 2 (Egr2), early growth response 3 (Egr3), FBJ osteosarcoma oncogene (Fos) and fos-like antigen 1 (Fosl1), were identified by comparison of the transcription factor binding site (TFBS) prediction results for STAT1, whose expression was evaluated by qPCR. Three cell cycle inhibitors, p53, p18 and p21, were significantly downregulated with the overexpression of Pias1. Analysis of functional enrichment and expression levels showed that basic region leucine zipper domain-containing transcription factors including zinc finger C2H2 (zf-C2H2), homeobox and basic/helix-loop-helix (bHLH) in several signaling pathways were significantly involved in PIAS1 regulation in HT-22 cells. A reconstructed regulatory network under PIAS1 overexpression demonstrated that there were 43 related proteins, notably Nr3c2, that directly interacted with PIAS1.
33769609 | CDKN2A deregulation in fatty liver disease and its accelerative role in the process of lipogenesis. Previous literature has indicated that cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2 A (CDKN2A) is upregulated, while the Protein Inhibitor of Activated STAT1 (PIAS1) is downregulated in the liver tissues of obese mice. The current study aimed to investigate the relationship between CDKN2A and PIAS1 in the lipogenesis of fatty liver disease. In the C57BL/6J db/db mouse model and hepatocyte model of fatty liver, the expression pattern of CDKN2A, PIAS1, Protein arginine methyltransferase 1 (PRMT1) and CASP8 and FADD-like apoptosis regulator (CFLAR) was characterized by RNA quantitative and Western blot analysis. The lipogenesis-related genes (Srebp1c and Fas) in the liver tissues and cells were employed in the assessment of lipogenesis in response to gain- or loss-of-function of CDKN2A, PIAS1, PRMT1, and CFLAR, while triglyceride and fat content were evaluated in relation to fat accumulation. Western blot analysis was conducted to determine c-Jun amino-terminal kinase (JNK) phosphorylation, while the ubiquitination of CFLAR and SUMOylation of PIAS1 was examined by immunoprecipitation. PIAS1 and CFLAR were downregulated, while CDKN2A, PRMT1, and phosphorylation of JNK was elevated in the tissues and cells of the fatty liver models. Our results suggested that CDKN2A enhanced the SUMOylation of PIAS1 to reduce the expression of PIAS1. PRMT1 downregulated CFLAR by triggering its ubiquitination, while CFLAR repressed phosphorylation of JNK. The in vitro and in vivo results indicated that CDKN2A silencing prevented lipogenesis and fat accumulation by impairing the PRMT1-dependent ubiquitination of CFLAR and blocking the phosphorylation of JNK. Taken together, the central observations of our study demonstrate that targeting CDKN2A contributes to the suppression of lipogenesis and fat accumulation in fatty liver disease. The findings of our study highlight the potential of CDKN2A as a promising target against fatty liver.
34187905 | SLX4IP promotes RAP1 SUMOylation by PIAS1 to coordinate telomere maintenance through NF-kappaB and Notch signaling. The maintenance of telomere length supports repetitive cell division and therefore plays a central role in cancer development and progression. Telomeres are extended by either the enzyme telomerase or the alternative lengthening of telomeres (ALT) pathway. Here, we found that the telomere-associated protein SLX4IP dictates telomere proteome composition by recruiting and activating the E3 SUMO ligase PIAS1 to the SLX4 complex. PIAS1 SUMOylated the telomere-binding protein RAP1, which disrupted its interaction with the telomere-binding protein TRF2 and facilitated its nucleocytoplasmic shuttling. In the cytosol, RAP1 bound to IkappaB kinase (IKK), resulting in activation of the transcription factor NF-kappaB and its induction of Jagged-1 expression, which promoted Notch signaling and the institution of ALT. This axis could be targeted therapeutically in ALT-driven cancers and in tumor cells that develop resistance to antitelomerase therapies. Our results illuminate the mechanisms underlying SLX4IP-dependent telomere plasticity and demonstrate the role of telomere proteins in directly coordinating intracellular signaling and telomere maintenance dynamics.
34229656 | Small heterodimer partner (SHP) aggravates ER stress in Parkinson's disease-linked LRRK2 mutant astrocyte by regulating XBP1 SUMOylation. BACKGROUND: Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress is a common feature of Parkinson's disease (PD), and several PD-related genes are responsible for ER dysfunction. Recent studies suggested LRRK2-G2019S, a pathogenic mutation in the PD-associated gene LRRK2, cause ER dysfunction, and could thereby contribute to the development of PD. It remains unclear, however, how mutant LRRK2 influence ER stress to control cellular outcome. In this study, we identified the mechanism by which LRRK2-G2019S accelerates ER stress and cell death in astrocytes. METHODS: To investigate changes in ER stress response genes, we treated LRRK2-wild type and LRRK2-G2019S astrocytes with tunicamycin, an ER stress-inducing agent, and performed gene expression profiling with microarrays. The XBP1 SUMOylation and PIAS1 ubiquitination were performed using immunoprecipitation assay. The effect of astrocyte to neuronal survival were assessed by astrocytes-neuron coculture and slice culture systems. To provide in vivo proof-of-concept of our approach, we measured ER stress response in mouse brain. RESULTS: Microarray gene expression profiling revealed that LRRK2-G2019S decreased signaling through XBP1, a key transcription factor of the ER stress response, while increasing the apoptotic ER stress response typified by PERK signaling. In LRRK2-G2019S astrocytes, the transcriptional activity of XBP1 was decreased by PIAS1-mediated SUMOylation. Intriguingly, LRRK2-GS stabilized PIAS1 by increasing the level of small heterodimer partner (SHP), a negative regulator of PIAS1 degradation, thereby promoting XBP1 SUMOylation. When SHP was depleted, XBP1 SUMOylation and cell death were reduced. In addition, we identified agents that can disrupt SHP-mediated XBP1 SUMOylation and may therefore have therapeutic activity in PD caused by the LRRK2-G2019S mutation. CONCLUSION: Our findings reveal a novel regulatory mechanism involving XBP1 in LRRK2-G2019S mutant astrocytes, and highlight the importance of the SHP/PIAS1/XBP1 axis in PD models. These findings provide important insight into the basis of the correlation between mutant LRRK2 and pathophysiological ER stress in PD, and suggest a plausible model that explains this connection.
34267330 | SUMOylation activates large tumour suppressor 1 to maintain the tissue homeostasis during Hippo signalling. Large tumour suppressor (LATS) 1/2, the core kinases of Hippo signalling, are critical for maintaining tissue homeostasis. Here, we investigate the role of SUMOylation in the regulation of LATS activation. High cell density induces the expression of components of the SUMOylation machinery and enhances the SUMOylation and activation of Lats1 but not Lats2, whereas genetic deletion of the SUMOylation E2 ligase, Ubc9, abolishes this Lats1 activation. Moreover, SUMOylation occurs at the K830 (mouse K829) residue to activate LATS1 and depends on the PIAS1/2 E3 ligase. Whereas the K830 deSUMOylation mutation of LATS1 found in the human metastatic prostate cancers eliminates the kinase activity by attenuating the formation of the phospho-MOB1/phospho-LATS1 complex. As a result, the LATS1(K830R) transgene phenocopies Yap transgene to cause the oversized livers in mice, whereas Lats1(K829R) knock-in phenocopies the deletion of Lats1 in causing the reproductive and endocrine defects and ovary tumours in mice. Thus, SUMOylation-mediated LATS1 activation is an integral component of Hippo signalling in the regulation of tissues homeostasis.
34488445 | LncRNA XR_001779380 Primes Epithelial Cells for IFN-gamma-Mediated Gene Transcription and Facilitates Age-Dependent Intestinal Antimicrobial Defense. Interferon (IFN) signaling is key to mucosal immunity in the gastrointestinal tract, but cellular regulatory elements that determine interferon gamma (IFN-gamma)-mediated antimicrobial defense in intestinal epithelial cells are not fully understood. We report here that a long noncoding RNA (lncRNA), GenBank accession no. XR_001779380, was increased in abundance in murine intestinal epithelial cells following infection by Cryptosporidium, an important opportunistic pathogen in AIDS patients and a common cause of diarrhea in young children. Expression of XR_001779380 in infected intestinal epithelial cells was triggered by TLR4/NF-kappaB/Cdc42 signaling and epithelial-specific transcription factor Elf3. XR_001779380 primed epithelial cells for IFN-gamma-mediated gene transcription through facilitating Stat1/Swi/Snf-associated chromatin remodeling. Interactions between XR_001779380 and Prdm1, which is expressed in neonatal but not adult intestinal epithelium, attenuated Stat1/Swi/Snf-associated chromatin remodeling induced by IFN-gamma, contributing to suppression of IFN-gamma-mediated epithelial defense in neonatal intestine. Our data demonstrate that XR_001779380 is an important regulator in IFN-gamma-mediated gene transcription and age-associated intestinal epithelial antimicrobial defense. IMPORTANCE Epithelial cells along the mucosal surface provide the front line of defense against luminal pathogen infection in the gastrointestinal tract. These epithelial cells represent an integral component of a highly regulated communication network that can transmit essential signals to cells in the underlying intestinal mucosa that, in turn, serve as targets of mucosal immune mediators. LncRNAs are recently identified long noncoding transcripts that can regulate gene transcription through their interactions with other effect molecules. In this study, we demonstrated that lncRNA XR_001779380 was upregulated in murine intestinal epithelial cells following infection by a mucosal protozoan parasite Cryptosporidium. Expression of XR_001779380 in infected cells primed host epithelial cells for IFN-gamma-mediated gene transcription, relevant to age-dependent intestinal antimicrobial defense. Our data provide new mechanistic insights into how intestinal epithelial cells orchestrate intestinal mucosal defense against microbial infection.
34857740 | PIAS1 alleviates diabetic peripheral neuropathy through SUMOlation of PPAR-gamma and miR-124-induced downregulation of EZH2/STAT3. Diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN) is a frequently occurring chronic complication of diabetes. In this study, we aim to explore the regulatory mechanism of protein inhibitor of activated STAT1 (PIAS1) in DPN in terms of autophagy and apoptosis of Schwann cells. The SUMOlation of PPAR-gamma by PIAS1 was examined, and ChIP was performed to verify the binding of PPAR-gamma to miR-124 promoter region. Dual-luciferase gene reporter assay was used to validate the binding affinity between miR-124 and EZH2/STAT3. Following loss- and gain-of-function experiments, in vitro assays in high glucose-treated Schwann cells (SC4) and in vivo assays in db/db and ob/ob mice were performed to detect the effects of PIAS1 on autophagy and apoptosis of Schwann cells as well as symptoms of DPN by regulating the PPAR-gamma-miR-124-EZH2/STAT3. The expression of PIAS1, PPAR-gamma, and miR-124 was downregulated in the sciatic nerve tissue of diabetic mice. PIAS1 enhanced the expression of PPAR-gamma through direct binding and SUMOlation of PPAR-gamma. PPAR-gamma enhanced the expression of miR-124 by enhancing the promoter activity of miR-124. Furthermore, miR-124 targeted and inversely modulated EZH2 and STAT3, promoting the autophagy of Schwann cells and inhibiting their apoptosis. In vivo experiments further substantiated that PIAS1 could promote the autophagy and inhibit the apoptosis of Schwann cells through the PPAR-gamma-miR-124-EZH2/STAT3 axis. In conclusion, PIAS1 promoted SUMOlation of PPAR-gamma to stabilize PPAR-gamma expression, which upregulated miR-124 to inactivate EZH2/STAT3, thereby inhibiting apoptosis and promoting autophagy of Schwann cells to suppress the development of DPN.
34943240 | IFP35 Is a Relevant Factor in Innate Immunity, Multiple Sclerosis, and Other Chronic Inflammatory Diseases: A Review. Discovered in 1993 by Bange et al., the 35-kDa interferon-induced protein (IFP35) is a highly conserved cytosolic interferon-induced leucine zipper protein with a 17q12-21 coding gene and unknown function. Belonging to interferon stimulated genes (ISG), the IFP35 reflects the type I interferon (IFN) activity induced through the JAK-STAT phosphorylation, and it can homodimerize with N-myc-interactor (NMI) and basic leucine zipper transcription factor (BATF), resulting in nuclear translocation and a functional expression. Casein kinase 2-interacting protein-1 (CKIP-1), retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I), and laboratory of genetics and physiology 2 Epinephelus coioides (EcLGP2) are thought to regulate IFP35, via the innate immunity pathway. Several in vitro and in vivo studies on fish and mammals have confirmed the IFP35 as an ISG factor with antiviral and antiproliferative functions. However, in a mice model of sepsis, IFP35 was found working as a damage associated molecular pattern (DAMP) molecule, which enhances inflammation by acting in the innate immune-mediated way. In human pathology, the IFP35 expression level predicts disease outcome and response to therapy in Multiple Sclerosis (MS), reflecting IFN activity. Specifically, IFP35 was upregulated in Lupus Nephritis (LN), Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA), and untreated MS. However, it normalized in the MS patients undergoing therapy. The considered data indicate IFP35 as a pleiotropic factor, suggesting it as biologically relevant in the innate immunity, general pathology, and human demyelinating diseases of the central nervous system.
34951052 | A PIAS1 Protective Variant S510G Delays polyQ Disease Onset by Modifying Protein Homeostasis. BACKGROUND: Polyglutamine (polyQ) diseases are dominant neurodegenerative diseases caused by an expansion of the polyQ-encoding CAG repeats in the disease-causing gene. The length of the CAG repeats is the major determiner of the age at onset (AO) of polyQ diseases, including Huntington's disease (HD) and spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 (SCA3). OBJECTIVE: We set out to identify common genetic variant(s) that may affect the AO of polyQ diseases. METHODS: Three hundred thirty-seven patients with HD or SCA3 were enrolled for targeted sequencing of 583 genes implicated in proteinopathies. In total, 16 genes were identified as containing variants that are associated with late AO of polyQ diseases. For validation, we further investigate the variants of PIAS1 because PIAS1 is an E3 SUMO (small ubiquitin-like modifier) ligase for huntingtin (HTT), the protein linked to HD. RESULTS: Biochemical analyses revealed that the ability of PIAS1S510G to interact with mutant huntingtin (mHTT) was less than that of PIAS1WT , resulting in lower SUMOylation of mHTT and lower accumulation of insoluble mHTT. Genetic knock-in of PIAS1S510G in a HD mouse model (R6/2) ameliorated several HD-like deficits (including shortened life spans, poor grip strength and motor coordination) and reduced neuronal accumulation of mHTT. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that PIAS1 is a genetic modifier of polyQ diseases. The naturally occurring variant, PIAS1S510G , is associated with late AO in polyQ disease patients and milder disease severity in HD mice. Our study highlights the possibility of targeting PIAS1 or pathways governing protein homeostasis as a disease-modifying approach for treating patients with HD.   2021 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.
34971590 | Off-target lipid metabolism disruption by the mouse constitutive androstane receptor ligand TCPOBOP in humanized mice. The constitutive androstane receptor (CAR) controls xenobiotic clearance, regulates liver glucose, lipid metabolism, and energy homeostasis. These functions have been mainly discovered using the prototypical mouse-specific CAR ligand TCPOBOP in wild-type or CAR null mice. However, TCPOBOP is reported to result in some off-target metabolic effects in CAR null mice. In this study, we compared the metabolic effects of TCPOBOP using lipidomic, transcriptomic, and proteomic analyses in wild-type and humanized CAR-PXR-CYP3A4/3A7 mice. In the model, human CAR retains its constitutive activity in metabolism regulation; however, it is not activated by TCPOBOB. Notably, we observed that TCPOBOP affected lipid homeostasis by elevating serum and liver triglyceride levels and promoted hepatocyte hypertrophy in humanized CAR mice. Hepatic lipidomic analysis revealed a significant accumulation of triglycerides and decrease of its metabolites in humanized CAR mice. RNA-seq analysis has shown divergent gene expression levels in wild-type and humanized CAR mice. Gene expression regulation in humanized mice is mainly involved in lipid metabolic processes and in the PPAR, leptin, thyroid, and circadian clock pathways. In contrast, CAR activation by TCPOBOP in wild-type mice reduced liver and plasma triglyceride levels and induced a typical transcriptomic proliferative response in the liver. In summary, we identified TCPOBOP as a disruptor of lipid metabolism in humanized CAR mice. The divergent effects of TCPOBOP in humanized mice in comparison with the prototypical CAR-mediated response in WT mice warrant the use of appropriate model ligands and humanized animal models during the testing of endocrine disruption and the characterization of adverse outcome pathways.
35050146 | Methotrexate Disposition, Anti-Folate Activity, and Metabolomic Profiling to Identify Molecular Markers of Disease Activity and Drug Response in the Collagen-Induced Arthritis Mouse Model. Methotrexate (MTX) is widely used in the treatment of autoimmune arthritis but is limited by its unpredictable and variable response profile. Currently, no biomarkers exist to predict or monitor early therapeutic responses to MTX. Using a collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) mouse model, this study aimed to identify biochemical pathways and biomarkers associated with MTX efficacy in autoimmune arthritis. Following arthritis disease induction, DBA/1J mice were treated with subcutaneous MTX (20 mg/kg/week) and disease activity was assessed based on disease activity scores (DAS) and paw volume (PV) measurements. Red blood cell (RBC) and plasma samples were collected at the end of the study and were assessed for folate and MTX content. Plasma samples were analyzed by semitargeted global metabolomic profiling and analyzed by univariate and multivariate analysis. Treatment with MTX was associated with significant reductions in disease activity based on both DAS (p = 0.0006) and PV (p = 0.0006). MTX therapy resulted in significant reductions in 5-methyltetrahydrofolate (5mTHF) levels in plasma (p = 0.02) and RBCs (p = 0.001). Reductions in both RBC and plasma 5mTHF were associated with lower DAS (p = 0.0007, p = 0.01, respectively) and PV (p = 0.001, p = 0.005, respectively). Increases in RBC MTX were associated with lower DAS (p = 0.003) but not PV (p = 0.23). Metabolomic analysis identified N-methylisoleucine (NMI) and quinolone as metabolites significantly altered in disease mice, which were corrected towards healthy control levels in mice treated with MTX. Reductions in plasma NMI were associated with lower DAS (p = 0.0002) and PV (p = 9.5 x 10-6). Increases in plasma quinolone were associated with lower DAS (p = 0.02) and PV (p = 0.01). Receiver-operating characteristic curve analysis identified plasma NMI (AUC = 1.00, p = 2.4 x 10-8), RBC 5mTHF (AUC = 0.99, p = 2.4 x 10-5), and plasma quinolone (AUC = 0.89, p = 0.01) as top discriminating metabolites of MTX treatment. Our data support a relationship between MTX efficacy and its effect on circulating folates and identified 5mTHF, NMI, and quinolone as potential therapeutic biomarkers of disease activity and MTX response in the CIA mouse model of autoimmune arthritis.
35100012 | Coxiella burnetii Virulent Phase I and Avirulent Phase II Variants Differentially Manipulate Autophagy Pathway in Neutrophils. Coxiella burnetii is an obligate intracellular Gram-negative bacterium that causes Q fever in humans. The virulent C. burnetii Nine Mile phase I (NMI) strain causes disease in animal models, while the avirulent NM phase II (NMII) strain does not. In this study, we found that NMI infection induces severe splenomegaly and bacterial burden in the spleen in BALB/c mice, while NMII infection does not. A significantly higher number of CD11b+ Ly6G+ neutrophils accumulated in the liver, lung, and spleen of NMI-infected mice than in NMII-infected mice. Thus, neutrophil accumulation correlates with NMI and NMII infection-induced inflammatory responses. In vitro studies also demonstrated that although NMII exhibited a higher infection rate than NMI in mouse bone marrow neutrophils (BMNs), NMI-infected BMNs survived longer than NMII-infected BMNs. These results suggest that the differential interactions of NMI and NMII with neutrophils may be related to their ability to cause disease in animals. To understand the molecular mechanism underlying the differential interactions of NMI and NMII with neutrophils, global transcriptomic gene expressions were compared between NMI- and NMII-infected BMNs by RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) analysis. Interestingly, several genes involved in autophagy-related pathways, particularly membrane trafficking and lipid metabolism, are upregulated in NMII-infected BMNs but downregulated in NMI-infected BMNs. Immunofluorescence and immunoblot analyses indicate that compared to NMI-infected BMNs, vacuoles in NMII-infected-BMNs exhibit increased autophagic flux along with phosphatidylserine translocation in the cell membrane. Similar to neutrophils, NMII activated LC3-mediated autophagy in human macrophages. These findings suggest that the differential manipulation of autophagy of NMI and NMII may relate to their pathogenesis.
35190527 | Wnt signaling is boosted during intestinal regeneration by a CD44-positive feedback loop. Enhancement of Wnt signaling is fundamental for stem cell function during intestinal regeneration. Molecular modules control Wnt activity by regulating signal transduction. CD44 is such a positive regulator and a Wnt target gene. While highly expressed in intestinal crypts and used as a stem cell marker, its role during intestinal homeostasis and regeneration remains unknown. Here we propose a CD44 positive-feedback loop that boosts Wnt signal transduction, thus impacting intestinal regeneration. Excision of Cd44 in Cd44fl/fl;VillinCreERT2 mice reduced Wnt target gene expression in intestinal crypts and affected stem cell functionality in organoids. Although the integrity of the intestinal epithelium was conserved in mice lacking CD44, they were hypersensitive to dextran sulfate sodium, and showed more severe inflammation and delayed regeneration. We localized the molecular function of CD44 at the Wnt signalosome, and identified novel DVL/CD44 and AXIN/CD44 complexes. CD44 thus promotes optimal Wnt signaling during intestinal regeneration.
35377920 | PIAS1-mediated SUMOylation of influenza A virus PB2 restricts viral replication and virulence. Host defense systems employ posttranslational modifications to protect against invading pathogens. Here, we found that protein inhibitor of activated STAT 1 (PIAS1) interacts with the nucleoprotein (NP), polymerase basic protein 1 (PB1), and polymerase basic protein 2 (PB2) of influenza A virus (IAV). Lentiviral-mediated stable overexpression of PIAS1 dramatically suppressed the replication of IAV, whereas siRNA knockdown or CRISPR/Cas9 knockout of PIAS1 expression significantly increased virus growth. The expression of PIAS1 was significantly induced upon IAV infection in both cell culture and mice, and PIAS1 was involved in the overall increase in cellular SUMOylation induced by IAV infection. We found that PIAS1 inhibited the activity of the viral RNP complex, whereas the C351S or W372A mutant of PIAS1, which lacks the SUMO E3 ligase activity, lost the ability to suppress the activity of the viral RNP complex. Notably, the SUMO E3 ligase activity of PIAS1 catalyzed robust SUMOylation of PB2, but had no role in PB1 SUMOylation and a minimal role in NP SUMOylation. Moreover, PIAS1-mediated SUMOylation remarkably reduced the stability of IAV PB2. When tested in vivo, we found that the downregulation of Pias1 expression in mice enhanced the growth and virulence of IAV. Together, our findings define PIAS1 as a restriction factor for the replication and pathogenesis of IAV.
35460552 | NRIP1 aggravates lung injury caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa in mice by increasing PIAS1 ubiquitination. Recently, evidence has shown that nuclear receptor interacting protein 1 (NRIP1) is involved in acute lung injury (ALI) progression, but the specific mechanism remains unclear. Pseudomonas aeruginosa (PA)-treated TC-1 cells were transfected with pcDNA-NRIP1 or si-NRIP1, and we found that overexpression of NRIP1 inhibited cell viability and promoted cell apoptosis and secretion of inflammatory factors, and transfection of si-NRIP1 reversed these effects. Furthermore, online bioinformatics analysis and co-immunoprecipitation assay results indicated that NRIP1 could bind to Ubiquitin Conjugating Enzyme E2I (UBE2I), and promoted UBE2I expression. Next, the PA-treated TC-1 cells were transfected with si-NRIP1 alone or together with pcDNA-UBE2I, and we observed that transfection with si-NRIP1 inhibited UBE2I expression, promoted cell viability, and reduced cell apoptosis and inflammatory factor secretion, which could be reversed by UBE2I overexpression. Moreover, UBE2I could bind to protein inhibitor of activated signal transducer and activators of transcription 1 (PIAS1). Overexpression of NRIP1 promoted UBE2I expression and inhibited PIAS1 expression, and NRIP1 promoted PIAS1 ubiquitination and degradation by UBE2I. The PA-treated TC-1 cells were transfected with si-UBE2I alone or together with si-PIAS1, and the results indicated that transfection of si-UBE2I had the same effect as transfection of si-NRIP1. Finally, our in vivo findings indicated that the expression of NRIP1 and UBE2I was decreased, and PIAS1 expression was increased, in the lung tissues of mice with NRIP1 knocked-down, and the inflammatory infiltration in the lung tissue was reduced. In conclusion, our study demonstrates that NRIP1 aggravates PA-induced lung injury in mice by promoting PIAS1 ubiquitination.
35881160 | Proteomic analysis of hepatic effects of phenobarbital in mice with humanized liver. Activation of the constitutive androstane receptor (CAR) may induce adaptive but also adverse effects in rodent liver, including the induction of drug-metabolizing enzymes, transient hepatocellular proliferation, and promotion of liver tumor growth. Human relevance of CAR-related adverse hepatic effects is controversially debated. Here, we used the chimeric FRG-KO mouse model with livers largely repopulated by human hepatocytes, in order to study human hepatocytes and their response to treatment with the model CAR activator phenobarbital (PB) in vivo. Mice received an intraperitoneal injection with 50 mg/kg body weight PB or saline, and were sacrificed after 72-144 h. Non-repopulated FRG-KO mice were used as additional control. Comprehensive proteomics datasets were generated by merging data obtained by targeted as well as non-targeted proteomics approaches. For the first time, a novel proteomics workflow was established to comparatively analyze the effects of PB on human and murine proteins within one sample. Analysis of merged proteome data sets and bioinformatics data mining revealed comparable responses in murine and human hepatocytes with respect to nuclear receptor activation and induction of xenobiotic metabolism. By contrast, activation of MYC, a key regulator of proliferation, was predicted only for mouse but not human hepatocytes. Analyses of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine incorporation confirmed this finding. In summary, this study for the first time presents a comprehensive proteomic analysis of CAR-dependent effects in human and mouse hepatocytes from humanized FRG-KO mice. The data support the hypothesis that PB does induce adaptive metabolic responses, but not hepatocellular proliferation in human hepatocytes in vivo.
35927280 | Subversion of GBP-mediated host defense by E3 ligases acquired during Yersinia pestis evolution. Plague has caused three worldwide pandemics in history, including the Black Death in medieval ages. Yersinia pestis, the etiological agent of plague, has evolved a powerful arsenal to disrupt host immune defenses during evolution from enteropathogenic Y. pseudotuberculosis. Here, we find that two functionally redundant E3 ligase of Y. pestis, YspE1 and YspE2, can be delivered via type III secretion injectisome into host cytosol where they ubiquitinate multiple guanylate-binding proteins (GBPs) for proteasomal degradation. However, Y. pseudotuberculosis has no such capability due to lacking functional YspE1/2 homologs. YspE1/2-mediated GBP degradations significantly promote the survival of Y. pestis in macrophages and strongly inhibit inflammasome activation. By contrast, Gbpchr3-/-, chr5-/- macrophages exhibit much lowered inflammasome activation independent of YspE1/2, accompanied with an enhanced replication of Y. pestis. Accordingly, Gbpchr3-/-, chr5-/- mice are more susceptible to Y. pestis. We demonstrate that Y. pestis utilizes E3 ligases to subvert GBP-mediated host defense, which appears to be newly acquired by Y. pestis during evolution.
35950162 | Comparative transcriptional analysis of satellite glial cell injury response. Background: Satellite glial cells (SGCs) tightly surround and support primary sensory neurons in the peripheral nervous system and are increasingly recognized for their involvement in the development of neuropathic pain following nerve injury. SGCs are difficult to investigate due to their flattened shape and tight physical connection to neurons in vivo and their rapid changes in phenotype and protein expression when cultured in vitro. Consequently, several aspects of SGC function under normal conditions as well as after a nerve injury remain to be explored. The recent advance in single cell RNA sequencing (scRNAseq) technologies has enabled a new approach to investigate SGCs. Methods: In this study we used scRNAseq to investigate SGCs from mice subjected to sciatic nerve injury. We used a meta-analysis approach to compare the injury response with that found in other published datasets.  Furthermore, we also used scRNAseq to investigate how cells from the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) change after 3 days in culture. Results: From our meta-analysis of the injured conditions, we find that SGCs share a common signature of 18 regulated genes following sciatic nerve crush or sciatic nerve ligation, involving transcriptional regulation of cholesterol biosynthesis. We also observed a considerable transcriptional change when culturing SGCs, suggesting that some differentiate into a specialised in vitro state while others start resembling Schwann cell-like precursors. Conclusion: By using integrated analyses of new and previously published scRNAseq datasets, this study provides a consensus view of which genes are most robustly changed in SGCs after injury. Our results are available via the Broad Institute Single Cell Portal, so that readers can explore and search for genes of interest.
36092961 | PIAS1 Alleviates Hepatic Ischemia-Reperfusion Injury in Mice through a Mechanism Involving NFATc1 SUMOylation. Recently, attentions have come to the alleviatory effect of protein inhibitor of activated STAT1 (PIAS1) in hepatic ischemia-reperfusion injury (HIRI), but the underlying molecular mechanistic actions remain largely unknown, which were illustrated in the present study. Microarray-based analysis predicted a possible regulatory mechanism involving the PIAS1/NFATc1/HDAC1/IRF-1/p38 MAPK signaling axis in HIRI. Then, growth dynamics of hypoxia/reoxygenation- (H/R-) exposed hepatocytes and liver injury of HIRI-like mice were delineated after the alteration of the PIAS1 expression. We validated that PIAS1 downregulation occurred in H/R-exposed hepatocytes and HIRI-like mice, while the expression of NFATc1, HDAC1, and IRF-1 and phosphorylation levels of p38 were increased. PIAS1 inactivated p38 MAPK signaling by inhibiting HDAC1-mediated IRF-1 through NFATc1 SUMOylation, thereby repressing the inflammatory response and apoptosis of hepatocytes in vitro, and alleviated liver injury in vivo. Collectively, the NFATc1/HDAC1/IRF-1/p38 MAPK signaling axis is highlighted as a promising therapeutic target for potentiating hepatoprotective effects of PIAS1 against HIRI.
36162807 | Single-cell RNA-seq reveals interferon-induced guanylate-binding proteins are linked with sarcopenia. BACKGROUND: Sarcopenia is defined as an age-related progressive loss of muscle mass and/or strength. Although different factors can contribute to this disease, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. We assessed transcriptional heterogeneity in skeletal muscles from sarcopenic and control mice at single-cell resolution. METHODS: A mouse model was established to study sarcopenic skeletal muscles. Single-cell RNA-seq was performed on tibialis anterior (TA) muscle cells collected from sarcopenic and control mice. A series of bioinformatic analyses were carried out to identify and compare different cell types under different conditions. Immunofluorescence staining and western blotting were used to validate the findings from single-cell experiments. Tube formation assays were conducted to further evaluate the effects of Gbp2 on endothelial cells during angiogenesis. RESULTS: A murine sarcopenia model was successfully established using a senescence-accelerated mouse strain (SAMP6, n = 5). Sarcopenia phenotype was induced by administration of dexamethasone (20 mg/kg) and reduced physical activity. Senescence-resistant mice strain (SAMR1) and SAMP6 strain with similar activity but injected with PBS were recruited as two control groups. As signs of sarcopenia, body weight, muscle cell counts and cross-sectional fibre area were all significantly decreased in sarcopenic mice (P value = 0.004, 0.03 and 0.035, respectively). After quality control, 13 612 TA muscle single-cell transcriptomes were retained for analysis. Fourteen cell clusters were identified from the profiled cells. Among them, two distinct endothelial subtypes were found to be dominant in the sarcopenia group (42.2% cells) and in the two control groups (59.1% and 47.9% cells), respectively. 191 differentially expressed genes were detected between the two endothelial subtypes. Sarcopenia-specific endothelial cell subtype exhibited a dramatic increase in the interferon family genes and the interferon-inducible guanylate-binding protein (GBP) family gene expressions. For example, Igtp and Gbp2 in sarcopenic endothelial cells were 5.4 and 13.3 times higher than those in the control groups, respectively. We further validated our findings in muscle specimens of sarcopenia patients and observed that GBP2 levels were increased in endothelial cells of a subset of patients (11 of 40 patients, 27.5%), and we identified significantly higher CD31 and GBP2 co-localization (P value = 0.001128). Finally, we overexpressed Gbp2 in human umbilical vein endothelial cells in vitro. The endothelial cells with elevated Gbp2 expression displayed compromised tube formation. CONCLUSIONS: Our single-cell-based results suggested that endothelial cells may play critical roles in sarcopenia development through interferon-GBP signalling pathways, highlighting new therapeutic directions to slow down or even reverse age-related sarcopenia.
36188600 | Exercise improves choroid plexus epithelial cells metabolism to prevent glial cell-associated neurodegeneration. Recent studies have shown that physical activities can prevent aging-related neurodegeneration. Exercise improves the metabolic landscape of the body. However, the role of these differential metabolites in preventing neurovascular unit degeneration (NVU) is still unclear. Here, we performed single-cell analysis of brain tissue from young and old mice. Normalized mutual information (NMI) was used to measure heterogeneity between each pair of cells using the non-negative Matrix Factorization (NMF) method. Astrocytes and choroid plexus epithelial cells (CPC), two types of CNS glial cells, differed significantly in heterogeneity depending on their aging status and intercellular interactions. The MetaboAnalyst 5.0 database and the scMetabolism package were used to analyze and calculate the differential metabolic pathways associated with aging in the CPC. These mRNAs and corresponding proteins were involved in the metabolites (R)-3-Hydroxybutyric acid, 2-Hydroxyglutarate, 2-Ketobutyric acid, 3-Hydroxyanthranilic acid, Fumaric acid, L-Leucine, and Oxidized glutathione pathways in CPC. Our results showed that CPC age heterogeneity-associated proteins (ECHS1, GSTT1, HSD17B10, LDHA, and LDHB) might be directly targeted by the metabolite of oxidized glutathione (GSSG). Further molecular dynamics and free-energy simulations confirmed the insight into GSSG's targeting function and free-energy barrier on these CPC age heterogeneity-associated proteins. By inhibiting these proteins in CPC, GSSG inhibits brain energy metabolism, whereas exercise improves the metabolic pathway activity of CPC in NVU by regulating GSSG homeostasis. In order to develop drugs targeting neurodegenerative diseases, further studies are needed to understand how physical exercise enhances NVU function and metabolism by modulating CPC-glial cell interactions.
36304450 | Central gene transcriptional regulatory networks shaping monocyte development in bone marrow. The development of monocytes in bone marrow is a complex process with multiple steps. We used RNA-seq data to analyze the transcriptome profiles in developing stages of monocytes, including hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs), common myeloid progenitors (CMPs), granulocyte-monocyte progenitors (GMPs), and monocytes. We found that genes related to potassium and other cation transmembrane activities and ion binding were upregulated during the differentiation of HSCs into CMPs. Protein transport and membrane surface functional molecules were significantly upregulated in the GMP stage. The CD42RAC and proteasome pathways are significantly upregulated during the development of HSCs into monocytes. Transcription factors Ank1, Runx2, Hmga2, Klf1, Nfia, and Bmyc were upregulated during the differentiation of HSCs into CMPs; Gfi1 and Hmgn2 were highly expressed during the differentiation of CMPs into GMPs; Seventeen transcription factors including Foxo1, Cdkn2d, Foxo3, Ep300, Pias1, Nfkb1, Creb1, Bcl6, Ppp3cb, Stat5b, Nfatc4, Mef2a, Stat6, Ifnar2, Irf7, Irf5, and Cebpb were identified as potentially involved in the development of GMPs into monocytes in mice and humans. In metabolism pathway regulation, HSCs have high glucose, lipid, and nucleic acid metabolism activities; CMPs mainly up regulate the TCA cycle related genes; and GMPs have extremely active metabolisms, with significantly elevated pentose phosphate pathway, TCA cycle, histidine metabolism, and purine metabolism. In the monocyte phase, the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle is reduced, and the anaerobic glycolysis process becomes dominated. Overall, our studies offer the kinetics and maps of gene transcriptional expressions and cell metabolisms during monocyte development in bone marrow.
36557946 | Isolation and Identification of Anti-Inflammatory Peptide from Goose Blood Hydrolysate to Ameliorate LPS-Mediated Inflammation and Oxidative Stress in RAW264.7 Macrophages. This study was designed to isolate an anti-inflammatory activity oligopeptide from goose blood (GBP) for ameliorating LPS-mediated inflammation response and oxidative stress in RAW264.7 macrophages. In this study, GBP was isolated by tangential flow ultrafiltration system (TFUS) combined with size exclusion chromatography (SEC), ion exchange chromatography (IEC), and reversed-phase liquid chromatography (RP-LC), and then identified by liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). The experiment results indicated that the amino acid sequence of oligopeptide with the best anti-inflammatory activity was IIe-Val-Tyr-Pro-Trp-Thr-Gln-Arg (IVYPWTQR), which had a molecular weight of 1062.5720 Da, and was derived from haemoglobin subunit beta OS in goose blood. In addition, IVYPWTQR was confirmed to have satisfactory stability and maintained high anti-inflammatory activity in a simulated gastrointestinal digestion. The mechanism by which the IVYPWTQR protected against LPS-mediated inflammation response was attributed to downregulating the TLR4/NF-kB/iNOS pathway. Moreover, IVYPWTQR ameliorated oxidative stress damage in inflammatory state was attributed to activating antioxidant defence system, which was regulated by Keap-1/NRF2/HO-1 signalling pathway for decreasing the accumulation of reactive oxide species (ROS). In summary, these results indicated GBP could serve as a potential functional factor for prevention and improvement of inflammation mediated by LPS and provided an affordable dietary intervention strategy to prevent inflammation.
36709579 | A high-throughput sequencing approach identifies immunotherapeutic targets for bacterial meningitis in neonates. BACKGROUND: Worldwide, Escherichia coli is the leading cause of neonatal Gram-negative bacterial meningitis, but full understanding of the pathogenesis of this disease is not yet achieved. Moreover, to date, no vaccine is available against bacterial neonatal meningitis. METHODS: Here, we used Transposon Sequencing of saturated banks of mutants (TnSeq) to evaluate E. coli K1 genetic fitness in murine neonatal meningitis. We identified E. coli K1 genes encoding for factors important for systemic dissemination and brain infection, and focused on products with a likely outer-membrane or extra-cellular localization, as these are potential vaccine candidates. We used in vitro and in vivo models to study the efficacy of active and passive immunization. RESULTS: We selected for further study the conserved surface polysaccharide Poly-beta-(1-6)-N-Acetyl Glucosamine (PNAG), as a strong candidate for vaccine development. We found that PNAG was a virulence factor in our animal model. We showed that both passive and active immunization successfully prevented and/or treated meningitis caused by E. coli K1 in neonatal mice. We found an excellent opsonophagocytic killing activity of the antibodies to PNAG and in vitro these antibodies were also able to decrease binding, invasion and crossing of E. coli K1 through two blood brain barrier cell lines. Finally, to reinforce the potential of PNAG as a vaccine candidate in bacterial neonatal meningitis, we demonstrated that Group B Streptococcus, the main cause of neonatal meningitis in developed countries, also produced PNAG and that antibodies to PNAG could protect in vitro and in vivo against this major neonatal pathogen. INTERPRETATION: Altogether, these results indicate the utility of a high-throughput DNA sequencing method to identify potential immunotherapy targets for a pathogen, including in this study a potential broad-spectrum target for prevention of neonatal bacterial infections. FUNDINGS: ANR Seq-N-Vaq, Charles Hood Foundation, Hearst Foundation, and Groupe Pasteur Mutualite.
36723217 | A clinically translatable kit for MRI/NMI dual-modality nanoprobes based on anchoring group-mediated radiolabeling. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)/nuclear medicine imaging (NMI) dual-modality imaging based on radiolabeled nanoparticles has been increasingly exploited for accurate diagnosis of tumor and cardiovascular diseases by virtue of high spatial resolution and high sensitivity. However, significant challenges exist in pursuing truly clinical applications, including massive preparation and rapid radiolabeling of nanoparticles. Herein, we report a clinically translatable kit for the convenient construction of MRI/NMI nanoprobes relying on the flow-synthesis and anchoring group-mediated radiolabeling (LAGMERAL) of iron oxide nanoparticles. First, homogeneous iron oxide nanoparticles with excellent performance were successfully obtained on a large scale by flow synthesis, followed by the surface anchoring of diphosphonate-polyethylene glycol (DP-PEG) to simultaneously render the underlying nanoparticles biocompatible and competent in robust labeling of radioactive metal ions. Moreover, to enable convenient and safe usage in clinics, the DP-PEG modified nanoparticle solution was freeze-dried and sterilized to make a radiolabeling kit followed by careful evaluations of its in vitro and in vivo performance and applicability. The results showed that 99mTc labeled nanoprobes are effectively obtained with a labeling yield of over 95% in 30 minutes after simply injecting Na[99mTcO4] solution into the kit. In addition, the Fe3O4 nanoparticles sealed in the kit can well stand long-term storage even for 300 days without deteriorating the colloidal stability and radiolabeling yield. Upon intravenous injection of the as-prepared radiolabeled nanoprobes, high-resolution vascular images of mice were obtained by vascular SPECT imaging and magnetic resonance angiography, demonstrating the promising clinical translational value of our radiolabeling kit.
36744765 | Mouse guanylate-binding protein 1 does not mediate antiviral activity against influenza virus in vitro or in vivo. Many interferon (IFN)-stimulated genes are upregulated within host cells following infection with influenza and other viruses. While the antiviral activity of some IFN-stimulated genes, such as the IFN-inducible GTPase myxoma resistance (Mx)1 protein 1, has been well defined, less is known regarding the antiviral activities of related IFN-inducible GTPases of the guanylate-binding protein (GBP) family, particularly mouse GBPs, where mouse models can be used to assess their antiviral properties in vivo. Herein, we demonstrate that mouse GBP1 (mGBP1) was upregulated in a mouse airway epithelial cell line (LA-4 cells) following pretreatment with mouse IFNalpha or infection by influenza A virus (IAV). Whereas doxycycline-inducible expression of mouse Mx1 (mMx1) in LA-4 cells resulted in reduced susceptibility to IAV infection and reduced viral growth, inducible mGBP1 did not. Moreover, primary cells isolated from mGBP1-deficient mice (mGBP1-/- ) showed no difference in susceptibility to IAV and mGBP1-/- macrophages showed no defect in IAV-induced NLRP3 (NLR family pyrin domain containing 3) inflammasome activation. After intranasal IAV infection, mGBP1-/- mice also showed no differences in virus replication or induction of inflammatory responses in the airways during infection. Thus, using complementary approaches such as mGBP1 overexpression, cells from mGBP1-/- mice and intranasal infection of mGBP1-/- we demonstrate that mGBP1 does not play a major role in modulating IAV infection in vitro or in vivo.
36769182 | Mycobacterium tuberculosis Evasion of Guanylate Binding Protein-Mediated Host Defense in Mice Requires the ESX1 Secretion System. Cell-intrinsic immune mechanisms control intracellular pathogens that infect eukaryotes. The intracellular pathogen Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) evolved to withstand cell-autonomous immunity to cause persistent infections and disease. A potent inducer of cell-autonomous immunity is the lymphocyte-derived cytokine IFNgamma. While the production of IFNgamma by T cells is essential to protect against Mtb, it is not capable of fully eradicating Mtb infection. This suggests that Mtb evades a subset of IFNgamma-mediated antimicrobial responses, yet what mechanisms Mtb resists remains unclear. The IFNgamma-inducible Guanylate binding proteins (GBPs) are key host defense proteins able to control infections with intracellular pathogens. GBPs were previously shown to directly restrict Mycobacterium bovis BCG yet their role during Mtb infection has remained unknown. Here, we examine the importance of a cluster of five GBPs on mouse chromosome 3 in controlling Mycobacterial infection. While M. bovis BCG is directly restricted by GBPs, we find that the GBPs on chromosome 3 do not contribute to the control of Mtb replication or the associated host response to infection. The differential effects of GBPs during Mtb versus M. bovis BCG infection is at least partially explained by the absence of the ESX1 secretion system from M. bovis BCG, since Mtb mutants lacking the ESX1 secretion system become similarly susceptible to GBP-mediated immune defense. Therefore, this specific genetic interaction between the murine host and Mycobacteria reveals a novel function for the ESX1 virulence system in the evasion of GBP-mediated immunity.
36905375 | N-palmitoylethanolamide synergizes the antinociception of morphine and gabapentin in the formalin test in mice. OBJECTIVE: The antinociceptive pharmacological interaction between N-palmitoylethanolamide (PEA) and morphine (MOR), as well as gabapentin (GBP), was investigated to obtain synergistic antinociception at doses where side effects were minimal. In addition, the possible antinociceptive mechanism of PEA + MOR or PEA + GBP combinations was explored. METHODS: Individual dose-response curves (DRCs) of PEA, MOR and GBP were evaluated in female mice in which intraplantar nociception was induced with 2% formalin. Isobolographic method was used to detect the pharmacological interaction in the combination of PEA + MOR or PEA + GBP. KEY FINDINGS: The ED50 was calculated from the DRC; the order of potency was MOR > PEA > GBP. The isobolographic analysis was obtained at a 1:1 ratio to determine the pharmacological interaction. The experimental values of flinching (PEA + MOR, Zexp = 2.72 +- 0.2 mug/paw and PEA + GBP Zexp = 2.77 +- 0.19 mug/paw) were significantly lower than those calculated theoretically (PEA + MOR Zadd = 7.78 +- 1.07 and PEA + GBP Zadd = 24.05 +- 1.91 mug/paw), resulting in synergistic antinociception. Pretreatment with GW6471 and naloxone demonstrated that peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha) and opioid receptors are involved in both interactions. CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that MOR and GBP synergistically enhance PEA-induced antinociception through PPARalpha and opioid receptor mechanisms. Furthermore, the results suggest that combinations containing PEA with MOR or GBP could be of interest in aiding the treatment of inflammatory pain.
37052473 | CAPRIN1 Is Required for Control of Viral Replication Complexes by Interferon Gamma. Replication complexes (RCs), formed by positive-strand (+) RNA viruses through rearrangements of host endomembranes, protect their replicating RNA from host innate immune defenses. We have shown that two evolutionarily conserved defense systems, autophagy and interferon (IFN), target viral RCs and inhibit viral replication collaboratively. However, the mechanism by which autophagy proteins target viral RCs and the role of IFN-inducible GTPases in the disruption of RCs remains poorly understood. Here, using murine norovirus (MNV) as a model (+) RNA virus, we show that the guanylate binding protein 1 (GBP1) is the human GTPase responsible for inhibiting RCs. Furthermore, we found that ATG16L1 mediates the LC3 targeting of MNV RC by binding to WIPI2B and CAPRIN1, and that IFN gamma-mediated control of MNV replication was dependent on CAPRIN1. Collectively, this study identifies a novel mechanism for the autophagy machinery-mediated recognition and inhibition of viral RCs, a hallmark of (+) RNA virus replication. IMPORTANCE Replication complexes provide a microenvironment important for (+) RNA virus replication and shield it from host immune response. Previously we have shown that interferon gamma (IFNG) disrupts the RC of MNV via evolutionarily conserved autophagy proteins and IFN-inducible GTPases. Elucidating the mechanism of targeting of viral RC by ATG16L1 and IFN-induced GTPase will pave the way for development of therapeutics targeting the viral replication complexes. Here, we have identified GBP1 as the sole GBP targeting viral RC and uncovered the novel role of CAPRIN1 in recruiting ATG16L1 to the viral RC.
37393345 | SUMOylation of Rho-associated protein kinase 2 induces goblet cell metaplasia in allergic airways. Allergic asthma is characterized by goblet cell metaplasia and subsequent mucus hypersecretion that contribute to the morbidity and mortality of this disease. Here, we explore the potential role and underlying mechanism of protein SUMOylation-mediated goblet cell metaplasia. The components of SUMOylaion machinery are specifically expressed in healthy human bronchial epithelia and robustly upregulated in bronchial epithelia of patients or mouse models with allergic asthma. Intratracheal suppression of SUMOylation by 2-D08 robustly attenuates not only allergen-induced airway inflammation, goblet cell metaplasia, and hyperreactivity, but IL-13-induced goblet cell metaplasia. Phosphoproteomics and biochemical analyses reveal SUMOylation on K1007 activates ROCK2, a master regulator of goblet cell metaplasia, by facilitating its binding to and activation by RhoA, and an E3 ligase PIAS1 is responsible for SUMOylation on K1007. As a result, knockdown of PIAS1 in bronchial epithelia inactivates ROCK2 to attenuate IL-13-induced goblet cell metaplasia, and bronchial epithelial knock-in of ROCK2(K1007R) consistently inactivates ROCK2 to alleviate not only allergen-induced airway inflammation, goblet cell metaplasia, and hyperreactivity, but IL-13-induced goblet cell metaplasia. Together, SUMOylation-mediated ROCK2 activation is an integral component of Rho/ROCK signaling in regulating the pathological conditions of asthma and thus SUMOylation is an additional target for the therapeutic intervention of this disease.
37481182 | Therapeutic efficacy and underlying mechanisms of Gastrodia elata polysaccharides on dextran sulfate sodium-induced inflammatory bowel disease in mice: Modulation of the gut microbiota and improvement of metabolic disorders. Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a chronic inflammatory gastrointestinal disease, and an imbalance in the gut microbiota is a critical factor in its development. Gastrodia elata (G. elata), an Orchidaceae plant, is recognized for its nutritional and medicinal value. Studies have shown that G. elata polysaccharides (GBP) have anti-inflammatory properties that may ameliorate IBD. However, the therapeutic effects of GBP on gut microbiota metabolism remain unknown. Therefore, we aimed to examine the therapeutic potential of G. elata extract and GBP in dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced IBD mice. GBP demonstrated the best therapeutic effect by reducing IBD symptoms in mice to the greatest extent. Administering GBP resulted in significant increases in the relative abundances of bacteria with potential anti-inflammatory effects, such as Ligilactobacillus and Alloprevotella, and decreases in the levels of bacteria associated with proinflammatory responses, such as Bacteroides and Escherichia-Shigella. Furthermore, 36 significant differential metabolites between the model and GBP groups were identified in feces, which were mainly enriched in amino acid metabolism, including tryptophan and cysteine, vitamin B6 metabolism and steroid hormone biosynthesis. Consequently, investigating the metabolic regulation of the gut microbiota is a promising approach to evaluate the therapeutic effect of GBP on IBD.
37532089 | PIAS1 upregulation confers protection against Cerulein-induced acute pancreatitis via FTO downregulation by enhancing sumoylation of Foxa2. OBJECTIVE: This research discussed the specific mechanism by which PIAS1 affects acute pancreatitis (AP). METHODS: PIAS1, Foxa2, and FTO expression was assessed in Cerulein-induced AR42J cells and mice. Loss- and gain-of-function assays and Cerulein induction were conducted in AR42J cells and mice for analysis. The relationship among PIAS1, Foxa2, and FTO was tested. Cell experiments run in triplicate, and eight mice for each animal group. RESULTS: Cerulein-induced AP cells and mice had low PIAS1 and Foxa2 and high FTO. Cerulein induced pancreatic injury in mice and inflammation and oxidative stress in pancreatic tissues, which could be reversed by PIAS1 or Foxa2 upregulation or FTO downregulation. PIAS1 elevated SUMO modification of Foxa2 to repress FTO transcription. FTO upregulation neutralized the ameliorative effects of PIAS1 or Foxa2 upregulation on Cerulein-induced AR42J cell injury, inflammation, and oxidative stress. CONCLUSION: PIAS1 upregulation diminished FTO transcription by increasing Foxa2 SUMO modification, thereby ameliorating Cerulein-induced AP.
37533862 | Multivalent vaccines demonstrate immunogenicity and protect against Coxiella burnetii aerosol challenge. Vaccines are among the most cost-effective public health measures for controlling infectious diseases. Coxiella burnetii is the etiological agent of Q fever, a disease with a wide clinical spectrum that ranges from mild symptoms, such as fever and fatigue, to more severe disease, such as pneumonia and endocarditis. The formalin-inactivated whole-cell vaccine Q-VAX  contains hundreds of antigens and confers lifelong protection in humans, but prior sensitization from infection or vaccination can result in deleterious reactogenic responses to vaccination. Consequently, there is great interest in developing non-reactogenic alternatives based on adjuvanted recombinant proteins. In this study, we aimed to develop a multivalent vaccine that conferred protection with reduced reactogenicity. We hypothesized that a multivalent vaccine consisting of multiple antigens would be more immunogenic and protective than a monovalent vaccine owing to the large number of potential protective antigens in the C. burnetii proteome. To address this, we identified immunogenic T and B cell antigens, and selected proteins were purified to evaluate with a combination adjuvant (IVAX-1), with or without C. burnetii lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in immunogenicity studies in vivo in mice and in a Hartley guinea pig intratracheal aerosol challenge model using C. burnetii strain NMI RSA 493. The data showed that multivalent vaccines are more immunogenic than monovalent vaccines and more closely emulate the protection achieved by Q-VAX. Although six antigens were the most immunogenic, we also discovered that multiplexing beyond four antigens introduces detectable reactogenicity, indicating that there is an upper limit to the number of antigens that can be safely included in a multivalent Q-fever vaccine. C. burnetii LPS also demonstrates efficacy as a vaccine antigen in conferring protection in an otherwise monovalent vaccine formulation, suggesting that its addition in multivalent vaccines, as demonstrated by a quadrivalent formulation, would improve protective responses.
37546987 | Inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) is necessary for GBP-mediated T. gondii restriction in murine macrophages via vacuole nitration and intravacuolar network collapse. Toxoplasma gondii is an obligate intracellular, protozoan pathogen of rodents and humans. T. gondii's ability to grow within cells and evade cell-autonomous immunity depends on the integrity of the parasitophorous vacuole (PV). Interferon-inducible guanylate binding proteins (GBPs) are central mediators of T. gondii clearance, however, the precise mechanism linking GBP recruitment to the PV and T. gondii restriction is not clear. This knowledge gap is linked to heterogenous GBP-targeting across a population of vacuoles and the lack of tools to selectively purify the intact PV. To identify mediators of parasite clearance associated with GBP2-positive vacuoles, we employed a novel protein discovery tool automated spatially targeted optical micro proteomics (autoSTOMP). This approach identified inducible nitric oxide synthetase (iNOS) enriched at levels similar to the GBPs in infected bone marrow-derived myeloid cells. iNOS expression on myeloid cells was necessary for mice to control T. gondii growth in vivo and survive acute infection. T. gondii infection of IFNgamma-primed macrophage was sufficient to robustly induce iNOS expression. iNOS restricted T. gondii infection through nitric oxide synthesis rather than arginine depletion, leading to robust and selective nitration of the PV. Optimal parasite restriction by iNOS and vacuole nitration depended on the chromosome 3 GBPs. Notably, GBP2 recruitment and ruffling of the PV membrane occurred in iNOS knockouts, however, these vacuoles contained dividing parasites. iNOS activity was necessary for the collapse of the intravacuolar network of nanotubular membranes which connects parasites to each other and the host cytosol. Based on these data we conclude reactive nitrogen species generated by iNOS cooperate with the chromosome 3 GBPs to target distinct biology of the PV that are necessary for optimal parasite clearance in murine myeloid cells.
37726278 | Translating genomic tools to Raman spectroscopy analysis enables high-dimensional tissue characterization on molecular resolution. Spatial transcriptomics of histological sections have revolutionized research in life sciences and enabled unprecedented insights into genetic processes involved in tissue reorganization. However, in contrast to genomic analysis, the actual biomolecular composition of the sample has fallen behind, leaving a gap of potentially highly valuable information. Raman microspectroscopy provides untargeted spatiomolecular information at high resolution, capable of filling this gap. In this study we demonstrate spatially resolved Raman \spectromics\ to reveal homogeneity, heterogeneity and dynamics of cell matrix on molecular levels by repurposing state-of-the-art bioinformatic analysis tools commonly used for transcriptomic analyses. By exploring sections of murine myocardial infarction and cardiac hypertrophy, we identify myocardial subclusters when spatially approaching the pathology, and define the surrounding metabolic and cellular (immune-) landscape. Our innovative, label-free, non-invasive \spectromics\ approach could therefore open perspectives for a profound characterization of histological samples, while additionally allowing the combination with consecutive downstream analyses of the very same specimen.
37846815 | NMI promotes tumor progression and gemcitabine resistance in pancreatic cancer via STAT3-IFIT3 axis. N-myc and STAT interactor (NMI) has been reported to interact with several transcription factors, including STATs family, c-Myc, N-Myc, and BRCA1, to indirectly affect transcription events and participate in multiple cellular processes. However, its function in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) has seldom been studied. In this study, we investigated the regulation of NMI on PDAC progression and uncovered the underlying molecular mechanisms. We found that NMI expression was significantly upregulated in PDAC and high NMI expression was related to a worse patient survival. Cell proliferation and migration assay, including cell viability, transwell assay, wound healing, and subcutaneous mouse model were utilized to confirm the function of NMI in PDAC progression. Downregulation of NMI abrogates tumor progression of PDAC both in vitro and in vivo. RNA sequencing was utilized to identify the downstream molecules of NMI and interferon-induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 3 (IFIT3) was confirmed to be regulated by NMI in both mRNA and protein level. The binding function of NMI to STAT3 was essential in regulating the IFIT3 expression. Moreover, the NMI/STAT3-IFIT3 axis was identified to markedly facilitate the gemcitabine resistance in PDAC cells.
38015971 | Inhibitory effects of polysaccharides from Korean ginseng berries on LPS-induced RAW264.7 macrophages. Polysaccharides isolated from Korean ginseng berries (GBPs) have shown beneficial effects such as immunomodulatory, anti-inflammatory, anti-cancer, and anti-diabetic properties. However, little is known about anti-inflammatory effects of GBPs. Thus, the purpose of this study was to investigate anti-inflammatory properties of four fractions of GBPs, namely GBP-C, GBP-F1, GBP-F2, and GBP-F3, in macrophages. Their toxicities and effects on NO production in RAW264.7 cells were assessed by culturing cells with various concentrations of GBPs and stimulating cells with LPS. Furthermore, expression levels of inflammatory mediators, cytokines, cell surface molecules, and immune signaling pathways were evaluated in LPS-stimulated macrophages using different fractions of GBPs at 450 mug/mL. These GBPs activated LPS-stimulated RAW264.7 cells to significantly reduce NO production. They suppressed the expression of mRNA and cell surface molecules via MAPK and NF-kappaB pathways. Collectively, results revealed that all four GBP fractions showed anti-inflammatory effects, with GBP-F1 having a more efficient anti-inflammatory effect than GBP-C, GBP-F2, and GBP-F3. The structure of GBP-F1 mainly consists of 1   3)- Araf, 1   4)- Glcp, and 1   6)-Galp glycosidic linkages. These results demonstrate that GBPs can be employed as alternative natural sources of anti-inflammatory agents.
38102979 | SUMOylation and coupling of eNOS mediated by PIAS1 contribute to maintenance of vascular homeostasis. Endothelial dysfunction (ED) is commonly considered a crucial initiating step in the pathogenesis of numerous cardiovascular diseases. The coupling of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) is important in maintaining normal endothelial functions. However, it still remains elusive whether and how eNOS SUMOylation affects the eNOS coupling. In the study, we investigate the roles and possible action mechanisms of protein inhibitor of activated STAT 1 (PIAS1) in ED. Human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) treated with palmitate acid (PA) in vitro and ApoE-/- mice fed with high-fat diet (HFD) in vivo were constructed as the ED models. Our in vivo data show that PIAS1 alleviates the dysfunction of vascular endothelium by increasing nitric oxide (NO) level, reducing malondialdehyde (MDA) level, and activating the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-protein kinase B-endothelial nitric oxide synthase (PI3K-AKT-eNOS) signaling in ApoE-/- mice. Our in vitro data also show that PIAS1 can SUMOylate eNOS under endogenous conditions; moreover, it antagonizes the eNOS uncoupling induced by PA. The findings demonstrate that PIAS1 alleviates the dysfunction of vascular endothelium by promoting the SUMOylation and inhibiting the uncoupling of eNOS, suggesting that PIAS1 would become an early predictor of atherosclerosis and a new potential target of the hyperlipidemia-related cardiovascular diseases.
38141281 | Sensitization of cholangiocarcinoma cells to chemotherapy through BCRP inhibition with beta-caryophyllene oxide. Cholangiocarcinomas (CCAs) are cancers originated in the biliary tree, which are characterized by their high mortality and marked chemoresistance, partly due to the activity of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) export pumps, whose inhibition has been proposed as a strategy for enhancing the response to chemotherapy. We have previously shown that beta-caryophyllene oxide (CRYO) acts as a chemosensitizer in hepatocellular carcinoma by inhibiting ABCB1, MRP1, and MRP2. Here, we have evaluated the usefulness of CRYO in inhibiting BCRP and improving the response of CCA to antitumor drugs. The TCGA-CHOL cohort (n = 36) was used for in silico analysis. BCRP expression (mRNA and protein) was assayed in samples from intrahepatic (iCCA) and extrahepatic (eCCA) tumors (n = 50) and CCA-derived cells (EGI-1 and TFK-1). In these cells, BCRP-dependent mitoxantrone transport was determined by flow cytometry. At non-toxic concentrations, CRYO inhibited BCRP function, which enhanced the cytostatic effect of drugs used in the treatment of CCA. The BCRP ability to confer resistance to a panel of antitumor drugs was determined in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells with stable BCRP expression. At non-toxic concentrations, CRYO markedly reduced BCRP-induced resistance to known substrate drugs (mitoxantrone and SN-38) and cisplatin, gemcitabine, sorafenib, and 5-FU but not oxaliplatin. Neither CRYO nor cisplatin alone significantly affected the growth of BCRP-expressing tumors subcutaneously implanted in immunodeficient mice. In contrast, intratumor drug content was enhanced when administered together, and tumor growth was inhibited. In sum, the combined treatment of drugs exported by BCRP with CRYO can improve the response to chemotherapy in CCA patients.
38153635 | The Chaperone Protein Cct5 is Essential for Hematopoietic Stem Cell Maintenance. Proper proteostasis is indispensable for the long-term maintenance of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs). The TRiC/CCT (chaperonin-containing TCP-1) complex, a key constituent of cellular machinery facilitating accurate protein folding, has remained enigmatic in its specific function within HSPCs. Here we show that conditional knockout (KO) of Cct5 significantly impairs the maintenance of murine HSPCs. Primary and secondary transplantation experiments unequivocally demonstrate the incapacity of Cct5 KO HSPCs to reconstitute both myeloid and lymphoid lineage cells in recipient mice, highlighting the pivotal role of the TRiC/CCT complex in governing these cellular lineages. Furthermore, leveraging an integrated approach that merges a Protein-Protein Interaction (PPI) database with RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) data of HSPCs, our analysis reveals intricate interactions between Cct5 and vital transcription factors crucial for HSC homeostasis. Notably, Cct5 engages with MYC, PIAS1, TP53, ESR1, HOXA1, and JUN, intricately regulating the transcriptional landscape governing autophagy, myeloid differentiation, and cytoskeleton organization within HSPCs. Our study unveils the profound significance of TRiC/CCT complex-mediated proteostasis in orchestrating the maintenance and functionality of HSPCs.
38164132 | Two birds with one stone: human SIRPalpha nanobodies for functional modulation and in vivo imaging of myeloid cells. Signal-regulatory protein alpha (SIRPalpha) expressed by myeloid cells is of particular interest for therapeutic strategies targeting the interaction between SIRPalpha and the \don't eat me\ ligand CD47 and as a marker to monitor macrophage infiltration into tumor lesions. To address both approaches, we developed a set of novel human SIRPalpha (hSIRPalpha)-specific nanobodies (Nbs). We identified high-affinity Nbs targeting the hSIRPalpha/hCD47 interface, thereby enhancing antibody-dependent cellular phagocytosis. For non-invasive in vivo imaging, we chose S36 Nb as a non-modulating binder. By quantitative positron emission tomography in novel hSIRPalpha/hCD47 knock-in mice, we demonstrated the applicability of 64Cu-hSIRPalpha-S36 Nb to visualize tumor infiltration of myeloid cells. We envision that the hSIRPalpha-Nbs presented in this study have potential as versatile theranostic probes, including novel myeloid-specific checkpoint inhibitors for combinatorial treatment approaches and for in vivo stratification and monitoring of individual responses during cancer immunotherapies.
38326333 | Chromosome level genome assembly of the Etruscan shrew Suncus etruscus. Suncus etruscus is one of the world's smallest mammals, with an average body mass of about 2 grams. The Etruscan shrew's small body is accompanied by a very high energy demand and numerous metabolic adaptations. Here we report a chromosome-level genome assembly using PacBio long read sequencing, 10X Genomics linked short reads, optical mapping, and Hi-C linked reads. The assembly is partially phased, with the 2.472 Gbp primary pseudohaplotype and 1.515 Gbp alternate. We manually curated the primary assembly and identified 22 chromosomes, including X and Y sex chromosomes. The NCBI genome annotation pipeline identified 39,091 genes, 19,819 of them protein-coding. We also identified segmental duplications, inferred GO term annotations, and computed orthologs of human and mouse genes. This reference-quality genome will be an important resource for research on mammalian development, metabolism, and body size control.
38348040 | Evolutionary and functional characterization of lagomorph guanylate-binding proteins: a story of gain and loss and shedding light on expression, localization and innate immunity-related functions. Guanylate binding proteins (GBPs) are an evolutionarily ancient family of proteins that are widely distributed among eukaryotes. They belong to the dynamin superfamily of GTPases, and their expression can be partially induced by interferons (IFNs). GBPs are involved in the cell-autonomous innate immune response against bacterial, parasitic and viral infections. Evolutionary studies have shown that GBPs exhibit a pattern of gene gain and loss events, indicative for the birth-and-death model of evolution. Most species harbor large GBP gene clusters that encode multiple paralogs. Previous functional and in-depth evolutionary studies have mainly focused on murine and human GBPs. Since rabbits are another important model system for studying human diseases, we focus here on lagomorphs to broaden our understanding of the multifunctional GBP protein family by conducting evolutionary analyses and performing a molecular and functional characterization of rabbit GBPs. We observed that lagomorphs lack GBP3, 6 and 7. Furthermore, Leporidae experienced a loss of GBP2, a unique duplication of GBP5 and a massive expansion of GBP4. Gene expression analysis by reverse transcriptase quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and transcriptome data revealed that leporid GBP expression varied across tissues. Overexpressed rabbit GBPs localized either uniformly and/or discretely to the cytoplasm and/or to the nucleus. Oryctolagus cuniculus (oc)GBP5L1 and rarely ocGBP5L2 were an exception, colocalizing with the trans-Golgi network (TGN). In addition, four ocGBPs were IFN-inducible and only ocGBP5L2 inhibited furin activity. In conclusion, from an evolutionary perspective, lagomorph GBPs experienced multiple gain and loss events, and the molecular and functional characteristics of ocGBP suggest a role in innate immunity.
38409551 | Ubiquitin specific peptidase 38 epigenetically regulates KLF transcription factor 5 to augment malignant progression of lung adenocarcinoma. Protein ubiquitination is a common post-translational modification and a critical mechanism for regulating protein stability. This study aimed to explore the role and potential molecular mechanism of ubiquitin-specific peptidase 38 (USP38) in the progression of lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD). USP38 expression was significantly higher in patients with LUAD than in their counterparts, and higher USP38 expression was closely associated with a worse prognosis. USP38 silencing suppresses the proliferation of LUAD cells in vitro and impedes the tumorigenic activity of cells in xenograft mouse models in vivo. Further, we found that USP38 affected the protein stability of transcription factor Kruppel-like factors 5 (KLF5) by inhibiting its degradation. Subsequent mechanistic investigations showed that the N-terminal of USP38 (residues 1-400aa) interacted with residues 1-200aa of KLF5, thereby stabilizing the KLF5 protein by deubiquitination. Moreover, we found that PIAS1-mediated SUMOylation of USP38 was promoted, whereas SENP2-mediated de-SUMOylation of USP38 suppressed the deubiquitination effects of USP38 on KLF5. Additionally, our results demonstrated that KLF5 overexpression restored the suppression of the malignant properties of LUAD cells by USP38 knockdown. SUMOylation of USP38 enhances the deubiquitination and stability of KLF5, thereby augmenting the malignant progression of LUAD.
38459198 | Estrogen receptor activation remodels TEAD1 gene expression to alleviate hepatic steatosis. Sex-based differences in obesity-related hepatic malignancies suggest the protective roles of estrogen. Using a preclinical model, we dissected estrogen receptor (ER) isoform-driven molecular responses in high-fat diet (HFD)-induced liver diseases of male and female mice treated with or without an estrogen agonist by integrating liver multi-omics data. We found that selective ER activation recovers HFD-induced molecular and physiological liver phenotypes. HFD and systemic ER activation altered core liver pathways, beyond lipid metabolism, that are consistent between mice and primates. By including patient cohort data, we uncovered that ER-regulated enhancers govern central regulatory and metabolic genes with clinical significance in metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) patients, including the transcription factor TEAD1. TEAD1 expression increased in MASLD patients, and its downregulation by short interfering RNA reduced intracellular lipid content. Subsequent TEAD small molecule inhibition improved steatosis in primary human hepatocyte spheroids by suppressing lipogenic pathways. Thus, TEAD1 emerged as a new therapeutic candidate whose inhibition ameliorates hepatic steatosis.
38475864 | Functionally-instructed modifiers of response to ATR inhibition in experimental glioma. BACKGROUND: The DNA damage response (DDR) is a physiological network preventing malignant transformation, e.g. by halting cell cycle progression upon DNA damage detection and promoting DNA repair. Glioblastoma are incurable primary tumors of the nervous system and DDR dysregulation contributes to acquired treatment resistance. Therefore, DDR targeting is a promising therapeutic anti-glioma strategy. Here, we investigated Ataxia telangiectasia and Rad3 related (ATR) inhibition (ATRi) and functionally-instructed combination therapies involving ATRi in experimental glioma. METHODS: We used acute cytotoxicity to identify treatment efficacy as well as RNAseq and DigiWest protein profiling to characterize ATRi-induced modulations within the molecular network in glioma cells. Genome-wide CRISPR/Cas9 functional genomic screens and subsequent validation with functionally-instructed compounds and selected shRNA-based silencing were employed to discover and investigate molecular targets modifying response to ATRi in glioma cell lines in vitro, in primary cultures ex vivo and in zebrafish and murine models in vivo. RESULTS: ATRi monotherapy displays anti-glioma efficacy in vitro and ex vivo and modulates the molecular network. We discovered molecular targets by genome-wide CRISPR/Cas9 loss-of-function and activation screens that enhance therapeutic ATRi effects. We validated selected druggable targets by a customized drug library and functional assays in vitro, ex vivo and in vivo. CONCLUSION: In conclusion, our study leads to the identification of novel combination therapies involving ATRi that could inform future preclinical studies and early phase clinical trials.
1314162 | Dissection of the interferon gamma-MHC class II signal transduction pathway reveals that type I and type II interferon systems share common signalling component(s). We have used a herpes virus thymidine kinase (HSV-TK) based metabolic selection system to isolate mutants defective in the interferon gamma mediated induction of the MHC class II promoter. All the mutations act in trans and result in no detectable induction of MHC and invariant chain (Ii) gene expression. Scatchard analysis indicates that the mutants have a normal number of surface IFN gamma receptors with the same affinity constant. The mutants fall into two broad categories. One class of mutants is still able to induce MHC class I, IRF-1, 9-27, 1-8 and GBP genes by IFN gamma. A second class of mutants is defective for the IFN gamma induction of all the genes tested; surprisingly, the IFN alpha/beta induction of MHC class I, 9-27, ISG54 and ISG15 genes is also defective in these mutants, although different members of this class can be discriminated by the response of the GBP and IRF-1 genes to type I interferons. These data demonstrate that the signalling pathways of both type I and type II interferon systems share common signal transduction component(s). These mutants will be useful for the study of IFN gamma regulation of class II genes and Ii chain, and to elucidate molecular components of type I and type II interferon signal transduction.
8049075 | Differential responsiveness of human bronchial epithelial cells, lung carcinoma cells, and bronchial fibroblasts to interferon-gamma in vitro. The present study examines interferon-gamma (IFN gamma)-induced changes in the expression of immunomodulatory genes, proliferation-associated genes, and squamous-specific genes in primary cultures of human bronchial epithelial cells and fibroblasts. IFN gamma induced the expression of guanylate binding protein (GBP or p67) and the MHC class II antigen, HLADR alpha, in both epithelial cells and fibroblasts. In contrast, the expression of complement component C3 was induced in bronchial epithelial cells but not in fibroblasts. Similarly, IFN gamma induced growth arrest (EC50 approximately 50 U/ml) only in bronchial epithelial cells. This growth arrest was accompanied by a down-regulation of cdc2, E2F-1, and p53 mRNA levels and was associated with expression of the squamous-specific marker genes, transglutaminase type I and cornifin. These findings are consistent with IFN gamma inducing squamous differentiation in bronchial epithelial cells. In contrast, several lung carcinoma cell lines did not respond to IFN gamma with respect to the down-regulation of proliferation-associated genes or the induction of squamous-specific genes. However, GBP expression was induced in all the cell lines in response to IFN gamma. The present study demonstrates that cultured human bronchial epithelial cells are sensitive to the immunomodulatory, growth-inhibitory, and differentiation-inducing properties of IFN gamma. In contrast, several lung carcinoma cell lines are insensitive to the growth-inhibitory and differentiation-inducing actions of IFN gamma, suggesting they may have acquired defects in certain IFN gamma signaling pathways. Although the growth of human bronchial fibroblasts is not altered, expression of certain immunomodulatory genes is induced by IFN gamma.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
9315472 | IFN-gamma inducibility of class II transactivator is specifically lacking in human tumour lines: relevance to retinoblastoma protein rescue of IFN-gamma inducibility of the HLA class II genes. We have previously reported that HLA class II induction by IFN-gamma is rescuable by reconstitution of functional retinoblastoma protein (RB) in two RB-defective tumour lines: the breast carcinoma line, MDA-468-S4 (S4) and the non-small cell lung carcinoma line, H2009. To determine the range of tumours and tumour types in which RB rescues HLA class II inducibility, we examined another RB-defective tumour line, the retinoblastoma line, WERI-Rb1. As in the case of S4 and H2009, HLA-DRA and -DRB were non-inducible by IFN-gamma in WERI-Rb1. However, neither inducibility of DRA nor DRB mRNA was resulted in an RB-positive stable transformant of WERI-Rb1, WLRB-8. While guanylate-binding protein (GBP) inducibility indicated that the basic IFN-gamma signal transduction pathway remained intact in WERI-Rb1, mRNA for class II transactivator (CIITA), a mediator of the IFN-gamma activation of the HLA class II genes and several other genes related to immune function, was not detectable in IFN-gamma-treated WERI-Rb1, indicating that the lack of CIITA expression was responsible, at least in part, for the inability of RB to rescue HLA class II-inducibility. The HLA class II-associated invariant chain (Ii), the expression of which is also up-regulated by CIITA, was non-inducible in WERI-Rb1, consistent with non-inducible CIITA. Also, IFN-gamma failed to activate the DRA, DRB and Ii promoters in WERI-Rb1. However, exogenous CIITA expression in WERI-Rb1 activated the DRA, DRB and Ii promoter-chloramphinocol acetyltransferase constructs, confirming that CIITA was not induced in WERI-Rb1 and indicating that other proteins required for activation of the class II and Ii promoters were functional in this cell line. Examination of additional cell lines for GBP and CIITA induction revealed that a specific lack of the CIITA IFN-gamma response is common in human tumour lines. The possible role of CIITA defects in tumorigenesis is discussed.
9831662 | Overexpression of chicken interferon regulatory factor-1 (Ch-IRF-1) induces constitutive expression of MHC class I antigens but does not confer virus resistance to a permanent chicken fibroblast cell line. The chicken fibroblast cell line C32 has been transfected with the chicken homolog (Ch-IRF-1) of the mammalian transcription factor IRF-1. Stable transfectants were generated, constitutively overexpressing Ch-IRF-1 mRNA and protein. Cells overexpressing Ch-IRF-1 showed enhanced constitutive expression of MHC class I (B-F, beta-microglobulin) antigens. With increasing number of passages cells with normal B-F IV surface antigen expression accumulated. In the revertants, the amount of Ch-IRF-1 mRNA was reduced. Overexpression of Ch-IRF-1 had no effect on the constitutive expression and the induction by chicken interferon type-I and type-II (Ch-IFN) of guanylate-binding protein (GBP). Susceptibility to vesicular stomatitis virus, sindbis virus, Newcastle disease virus and vaccinia virus was not altered by overexpression of Ch-IRF-1. An antiviral state could be induced against all viruses tested by similar amounts of Ch-IFN type I in clone 20-18 expressing Ch-IRF-1 and cells transfected with empty vector.
10860663 | Mouse RNA helicase II/Gu: cDNA and genomic sequences, chromosomal localization, and regulation of expression. RNA helicase II/Gu (RH II/Gu) is a mammalian nucleolar RNA helicase previously identified using an autoimmune serum from a patient with watermelon stomach disease. RH II/Gu can unwind double-stranded RNA and can fold or introduce a secondary structure to a single-stranded RNA. These two enzymatic activities reside in two separate domains of the RH II/Gu molecule. The present study reports the molecular analysis of the cDNA and genomic sequences of the mouse RH II/Gu, its chromosomal localization, and the regulation of expression. The cDNA-derived amino acid sequence shows three tandem repeats at the NH(2)-terminal end of the protein, which are not conserved in the human homologue. Each repeat has 37 amino acids that are rich in basic residues. The helicase and foldase domains are highly conserved between the mouse and the human RH II/Gu. The basic promoter region of the mouse RH II/Gu gene is within 300 nucleotides upstream of a putative ATG initiation codon. Upstream of this promoter region is a silencer that represses transcription of the mouse RH II/Gu gene. This inhibitory region contains three 38-nucleotide repeats in tandem. The mouse RH II/Gu consists of 14 exons and 13 introns. The 3' flanking sequence of the gene contains three putative polyadenylation sites but only two sites are probably functional as shown by Northern blot analysis and 3' end sequences of mouse RH II/Gu cDNA in the EST database. These two alternative polyadenylation sites are approximately 240 and 2100 nucleotides from the TGA stop codon. Both mouse and human RH II/Gu genes are localized on chromosome 10. The availability of the mouse RH II/Gu gene will facilitate its functional analysis including creation of a mouse deficient in RH II/Gu protein.
