---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

Both isoforms can downregulate MHC class II, however they differ in a number of other immunomodulatory properties, such as the ability to bind the IL10 receptor and induce signaling through STAT3.

Along with human leukocyte antigen gene encoding B,51 (HLA-B,51) and areas including the major histocompatibility complex class I, genome-wide association studies have recognized numerous other BD susceptibility genes including those encoding interleukin (IL)-10 , IL-12 receptor β 2 (IL-12RB2) , IL-23 receptor (IL-23R) , C-C chemokine receptor 1 gene, signal transducer and activator of transcription 4 (STAT4) , endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase (ERAP1) , and genes encoding killer cell lectin-like receptor family members (KLRC4-KLRK1).

Statistical studies of associated alleles detected on each microsatellite locus showed that the pathogenic gene for Behçet disease is most likely found within a 46-kb segment between the MICA and HLA-B genes.

We found that the Jak/STAT pathways activated by the common gamma chain (CD132) or common beta chain (CDw131) cytokine receptors are not required for MHCII expression in thymic cortical epithelia.

MHC class I-related chain (MIC)-A plays a key role in activating natural killer T (NKT) cells and serves as a downstream target of STAT3.

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

We identify gene loci that are highly enriched for STAT4 binding using chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing for STAT4 and the permissive histone mark H3K4me3 in activated NK cells.

In summary, a novel oligonucleotide array-based assay platform was developed and used to study interactions between STAT1 and functional TF binding partners, revealing that USF2 and potentially four other new TFs are partners of STAT1 in an IFN-γ stimulated mouse fibroblast cell line.

Here we show that BCR-ABL upregulates 24 p3 expression through activation of the JAK/STAT pathway, which culminates in binding of Stat5 to the 24 p3 promoter.

Chromatin immunoprecipitation demonstrated the induction of STAT5 Delta binding to STAT consensus sequences in the HIV-1 promoter together with a decreased recruitment of RNA polymerase II after 1 hour of GM-CSF stimulation of U1 cells.

Stat4 can bind to single IFN-gamma-activated sites (GASs) as a dimer or bind two tandem GASs as a pair of STAT dimers, or tetramer, stabilized through N-terminal domain (N domain) interactions between dimers.

Specificity of the decoy was demonstrated by its ability to directly block Stat6 binding to a cis-element probe and transactivation, but not affect Stat6 tyrosine phosphorylation or expression of the IL-4 receptor chains.

We show that an inhibitor of protein phosphatases (PPs) PP1/PP2A, calyculin A, induces (i) phosphorylation of STAT3 on serine and threonine residues, (ii) inhibition of STAT3 tyrosine phosphorylation and DNA binding activity, and (iii) relocation of STAT3 from the nucleus to the cytoplasm.

Restimulation of Th1 or Th2 cells via CD3 plus CD28 induced production of IFN-gamma or IL-4, respectively, but did not alter the activation status/DNA binding activity of STATs.

However, Th2 cells remained responsive to IL-12, which repressed STAT6 DNA binding but activated STAT4, and this coincided with a suppression of IL-4/IL-5 and an induction of IFN-gamma.

Th2 cells remained responsive to IL-12, which repressed STAT6 DNA binding and activated STAT4, and switched the cells to Th1.

We took advantage of double-stranded oligonucleotide probes containing a STAT6-binding gene-sequence from the promotor of the immunoglobulin heavy chain germline epsilon transcript to study the IL-4-induced DNA binding of STAT6.

STAT1 cannot compensate in the absence of STAT3 and, in fact, much of STAT1 binding to chromatin is STAT3 dependent.

By repressing expression of the negative regulator SOCS3 dependent on the transcription factor NF-κB, IL-1 increased the amplitude and duration of phosphorylation of the transcription factor STAT3 induced by TH17-polarizing cytokines, which led to an altered balance in the binding of STAT3 and STAT5 to shared consensus sequences in developing T cells.

Here we have shown that CXCL10/CXCR3 interactions drive effector Th1 polarization via STAT1, STAT4, and STAT5 phosphorylation, while CXCL11/CXCR3 binding induces an immunotolerizing state that is characterized by IL-10(hi) (Tr1) and IL-4(hi) (Th2) cells, mediated via p70 kinase/mTOR in STAT3- and STAT6-dependent pathways.

Interestingly, we found a novel, unique role for STAT5A in binding to genes involved in neural development and function (NDRG1, DNAJC6, and SSH2) , while STAT5B appears to play a distinct role in T cell development and function via DOCK8, SNX9, FOXP3 and IL2RA binding.

Presence of multiple Stat5 DNA binding consensus sequences within the promoter region of the PPARγ gene in human and in mouse suggests that PPARγ is downstream to the Jak-Stat signaling pathway.

Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and luciferase reporter assays demonstrated that both STAT1 and STAT3 directly bind to the STAT responsive elements (SRE) of the IL-22 promoter, and the balance between activated STAT3 and STAT1 determines IL-22 promoter activities.

Additionally, LLOV VP24 blocks tyrosine phosphorylated STAT1 binding to karyopherin alpha 5 (KPNA5) , STAT1 nuclear accumulation, and IFN-induced gene expression.

Moreover, Pol was found to interfere with nuclear transportation of STAT1/2 by competitively binding to the region of importin-α5 required for STAT1/2 recruitment.

STAT3-decoy ODN was shown to bind activated STAT3 within the cytoplasm, and to prevent its translocation to the nucleus, as well as that of STAT3-associated NF-κB, but it did not prevent the nuclear transfer of STAT3 with mutations in its DNA-binding domain.

Here, we show that STAT2 constitutively bound to STAT1, but not STAT3, via a conserved interface.

In this study, we analyzed the roles of the conserved STAT3 N-terminal domain (NTD) and GAS-element binding ability of STAT3 in nucleocytoplasmic trafficking.

Using immunocytochemistry techniques as well as the proximity ligation assay, we showed that STAT6 bound XPO1 in PBML cell lines and in HEK-293 cells genetically engineered to produce STAT6.

Here, we show that GM-CSF stimulation of U1 cells, while not inducing NF-κB activation, leads to STAT5Δ phosphorylation and binding to the NF-κB/STAT target sequence in the HIV LTR promoter, which already associates with p50 under unstimulated conditions.

Previously we reported that in T cells, RANTES activation of CCR5 results in Stat1 and Stat3 phosphorylation-activation, leading to Stat1:1 and Stat1:3 dimers that exhibit DNA binding activity and the transcriptional induction of a Stat-inducible gene, c-fos.

We provide evidence that the JAK/STAT signaling pathway is an important regulator of vascular SDF-1 levels and that p21Cip1 inhibits STAT3 binding to the STAT-binding site within the murine SDF-1 promoter.

Related to this, IFNγ-activated STAT1 binds to the IFNγ-activated sequence (GAS) element, but so do other STATs that are not involved in IFNγ signaling.

Whereas preformed STAT2-IRF9 complexes control basal expression of IFN-induced genes (ISG) , both type I IFN and IFN-γ cause promoter binding of a complete ISGF3 complex containing STAT1, STAT2 and IRF9.

Further Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analyses of differently expressed proteins showed that these proteins were involved in biological functions including biological processes (positive regulation of cytokine production, JAK-STAT cascade and leukocyte proliferation) , molecular functions (cytokine and growth factor receptors binding and cytokine activity) , and other important pathways (cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, JAK-STAT signaling pathway, IL-17 signaling pathway, NF-kappa B signaling pathway, Th17 cell differentiation, and intestinal immune network for IgA production) , all of which might be involved in the pathology of GO.

STAT4 bound directly to the CFH promoter, as demonstrated by luciferase reporter assay, electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) , and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assay, suggesting that STAT4 is a transcription factor for CFH.

The miR-1 promoter contained a STAT binding site and its transcriptional activity could be regulated by the JAK-STAT pathway.

STAT4 is phosphorylated after a variety of cytokines bind to the membrane, and then dimerized STAT4 translocates to the nucleus to regulate gene expression.

STAT1 was accountable for IFN-γ-induced activation of the β-catenin promoter, and IFN-γ increased the binding affinity of STAT1 to β-catenin promoter based on luciferase activity and chromatin immunoprecipitation.

The STAT proteins contain a conserved SH2 domain that facilitates the initiation of STAT activation via binding to tyrosine motifs followed by STAT dimerization.

By using RNA pulldown assay followed by western blotting and RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) , we identified Stat3 was the MNX1-AS1 binding protein and MNX1-AS1 upregulated the phosphorylation of Stat3 by enhancing the interaction between p-JAK and Stat3.

Here, we show using surface plasmon resonance spectroscopy that a common STAT3-SH2 inhibitor, 5 , 15-diphenylporphyrin (5 , 15-DPP) , does not bind STAT3 core amino acid residues 127 to 722 relative to another commercially available SH2 inhibitor, S3I-201.

Electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) analysis has demonstrated that Sp1 can bind to the-67 to-85 element and Stat3 can bind to the-44 to-53 STAT site in IL-6-stimulated M1 cells.

IL-15 induced STAT5 DNA binding to the IL-2Ralpha IFN-gamma-activated sequence (GAS) , MyD88 GAS, and c-cis-inducible elements, whereas IL-21 induced STAT3 DNA binding to MyD88 GAS and c-sis-inducible elements.

Evidence showed that STAT protein phosphorylation (p-STAT) by activated JAKs is permissive for p-STAT to act as transcription factors by binding to STAT-responsive gene promoter sequences.

Furthermore, we demonstrate that IL-13, like IL-4, induces distinct STAT6-DNA binding complexes and tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT6 and Janus kinase 3 (JAK3) in NK and T cells.

Immobilized peptides containing phosphorylated Tyr579, Tyr581 or Tyr775 bound Stat5, suggesting direct binding of Stat5 to these tyrosine residues of the PDGF beta-receptor.

In gel mobility shift studies, STAT6 binding to the STAT6 DNA binding site in the IgG1 promoter decreased in the presence of leflunomide or leflunomide plus uridine.

STAT5 and, to a lesser extent, STATs 1 and 3 were constitutively activated by tyrosine phosphorylation and induction of DNA binding activity in both P210 and P190(BCR/ABL)-transformed cells, but P190 differed in that it also prominently activated STAT6.

Mutation of the STAT binding site of the IL-9 receptor (tyr116phe) results in an important decrease in STAT activation and inhibition of proliferation in the presence of IL-9.

Here, we show that (i) malignant T cells display a decreased expression of a tumor suppressor miRNA, miR-22, when compared to non-malignant T cells, (ii) STAT5 binds the promoter of the miR-22 host gene, and (iii) inhibition of Jak3, STAT3, and STAT5 triggers increased expression of pri-miR-22 and miR-22.

Consistently, STAT5 bound to GAS sequence in the internal intron of FRA2 and reporter gene assays confirmed IL-2 induced STAT5 binding and transcriptional activation.

The SH2 domain of STATs (signal transducers and activators of transcription) binds to the receptor phosphotyrosines thereby promoting STAT phosphorylation by the Janus kinases and consequent activation.

We also found MEG3 interacted with DNMT1, JAK2, STAT3, HDAC1, and TYK2, and JAK2 was bound to STAT3, STAT5 and MYC.

Moreover, supernatants from cells expressing IRF1 induced phosphorylation of STAT1 and JAK1, and subsequent GAS binding by STAT1 that could not be blocked by treatment with antibodies against IFN-β or IFN-γ.

A model of GOT2 transcriptional regulation is proposed, in which the cooperative phosphorylation of STAT3 and direct joint binding of STAT3 and p65/NF-κB to the proximal GOT2 promoter are important.

Lacking comma: Chromosomal deletion of the STAT5 binding site in LOUCY cells reduced protein levels of STAT5 in some MEF2C-positve T-ALL cell lines, and the presence of inhibitory IL7-JAK-STAT5 signaling highlighted the repressive impact of this factor in MEF2C regulation.

Unmethylated STAT1 is less active because it can be bound and inactivated by its inhibitor, protein inhibitor of activated STAT1 (PIAS1).

Overexpression of PP2Ac in Huh7 cells resulted in hypomethylation of STAT1 increased binding to PIAS1, and reduced interferon-alpha-induced DNA binding of STAT1.

Overexpression of PP2Ac in Huh7 cells resulted in hypomethylation of STAT1, increased binding to PIAS1, and reduced interferon-alpha-induced DNA binding of STAT1.

Here, we found that EGCG enhanced IFN-γ-induced signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) activation in primary CD4(+) T cells from C57BL/6 mice and in a human leukemic CD4(+) T-cell line of Hut 78 cells, while it inhibited the classical pathway of IFN-γ signaling including activating phosphorylations of Janus kinase (JAK) 1 , JAK2 and STAT3, forming interferon-γ activated sequence (GAS)-binding STAT1 homodimers, and producing pro-inflammatory chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 9 (CXCL9).

We previously reported a point mutation in the DNA-binding domain of the NOD STAT5B gene that limits DNA binding when compared to wild-type STAT5 mice.

We further demonstrate by mutagenesis and co-immunoprecipitations that the N-domain of Stat5a/b is required for binding to PIAS3, and that PIAS3 inhibits transcriptional activity of Stat5a/b in breast cancer cells but not in prostate cancer cells.

We delimited the interacting domains of STAT3 and PIAS3 and identified a short fragment of the COOH-terminal acidic region of PIAS3, which binds strongly to the coiled-coil domain of STAT3.

The PIAS3/STAT3 complex then bound the STAT3 DNA binding sequence resulting in STAT3 regulated gene expression.

We further found that AR augments G-CSF signaling by activating extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 and also by sustaining Stat3 activity via diminishing the inhibitory binding of PIAS3 to Stat3.

siRNA-mediated STAT3 or GLI1 knockdown reduced promoter binding of GLI1 and STAT3, respectively.

Our research demonstrated that genipin suppresses STAT-3 phosphorylation and nuclear translocation, which may be attributed to the binding capacity of this compound to the Src homology-2 (SH2) domain of STAT-3.

We observed that Nmi, when bound to UL23, was not associated with STAT1, suggesting that UL23 binding of Nmi disrupts the interaction of Nmi with STAT1.

Protein inhibitor of activated STAT1 (PIAS1) , a transcriptional regulator that possesses small ubiquitin-related modifier (SUMO) E3 ligase activity, inhibits immune responses by selectively blocking the binding of NF-kappaB and STAT1 to gene promoters.

However, overexpressed alpha4 decreased arginine methylation of Stat1alpha and increased Stat1alpha binding to the Stat1alpha-specific inhibitor, PIAS1.

We analyzed the expression of PP2A, the enzymatic activity of PRMT1 (methylation assays) , the phosphorylation and methylation of STAT1, the association of STAT1 with PIAS1 (via coimmunoprecipitation assays) , the binding of activated STAT1 to interferon-stimulated response elements (via electrophoretic mobility shift assays) , and the induction of interferon target genes (via real-time RT-PCR) in human hepatoma cells expressing HBV proteins as well as in liver biopsies from patients with chronic hepatitis B and from controls.

Meanwhile, PIAS1WT increased STAT1 sumoylation, decreased STAT1 DNA binding and decreased STAT1 phosphorylation at Tyr-701 associated with spatial learning facilitation.

LXR ligands inhibit neither STAT1 phosphorylation nor STAT1 translocation to the nucleus but, rather, inhibit STAT1 binding to promoters and the expression of IRF1, TNFalpha, and IL-6, downstream effectors of STAT1 action.

This inhibition arises from impaired STAT1-DNA binding due to an increased association of the STAT inhibitor PIAS1 with phosphorylated STAT1 dimers in the absence of arginine methylation.

We found that protein levels of Stat1 were increased in CF cells, but that the active phosphorylated form of Stat1 was bound to the protein inhibitor of activated Stat1 (PIAS1).

Interestingly, we found that the histone methyltransferase Ezh2 and Stat5b-CA bound gamma-interferon activated site (GAS) sequences in the Irf8 enhancer IRF8 transcription, whereas Stat5b but not Ezh2 bound GAS sequences in the Irf4 promoter to enhance IRF4 transcription.

Furthermore, p300, STAT1 and PPARγ bound to a STAT binding site at-107 nt in CD36 promoter and enhanced its activity in ROS and BTK-dependent manner.

Mechanistically, LIF activates STAT, which binds to a Stat consensus sequence in the Six2 proximal promoter and sustains SIX2 levels.

Chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis showed that prolactin treatment augmented Stat5 binding to the GAS-A region in MIN6 cells, as well as in isolated mouse islets, and that Stat5 recognized the GAS-A region in pregnant mouse islets.

ASCs favored STAT3 over STAT5 transcription factor binding on STAT binding sites within the IL-17A/F gene locus.

Mechanistically, suppression of SPTBN1 and SMAD3 augmented the transcription of STAT3 by upregulating the CRE-binding proteins ATF3 and CREB2 and augmented the binding of those proteins to the regions within or upstream of the CRE site of the STAT3 promoter.

Although wild-type and Mac-Rap(KO) macrophages showed similar STAT3 phosphorylation on Tyr705, Mac-Rap(KO) macrophages showed decreased STAT3Ser727 phosphorylation in response to minimally modified low-density lipoprotein treatment and decreased Ccl2 promoter binding of STAT3.

Measuring the activity of STAT binding elements and the gfap promoter in the presence of various STAT mutants revealed that transactivation depended on the activity of STAT3 not STAT1.

Investigations into the mechanism of action revealed that SOCS2 inhibits EMT by inactivating signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and STAT5 via the competitive binding of SOCS2 to the STAT binding sites on IGF1R.

Further, we found STAT1/3 bound to the Pin1 promoter, revealing that activation of STAT1/3 was responsible for the increased expression of Pin1 under angiotensin II stimulation.

gamma-Activated sequence DNA elements efficiently inhibited STAT binding to importin alpha 5 suggesting that the DNA and importin alpha binding sites are close to each other in STAT dimers.

Pull-down assays confirm that IC pretreatment inhibits IFN-gamma-induced STAT1 phosphorylation without affecting the ability of STAT1 to bind to the STAT1-binding domain of the IFN-gamma receptor.

BRG1 is recruited after activator binding at several other inducible loci, and STAT family members are known to bind BRG1, suggesting that BRG1 might act downstream of STAT1.

The nuclear transport of active NF-κB or STAT1 was also not affected by HSF1 inhibition, but HSF1 inhibition reduced the binding of NF-κB and STAT1 to their DNA elements.

(3) Phosphorylated STAT3 binds to the MMP3 promoter in HBVEC cells, STAT3 transcribed MMP3 and induced MMP3 protein expression in HBVEC cells.

The MCP-1 promoter contains potential STAT binding sites and we demonstrate that STAT1 is recruited upon IFNβ stimulation.

gondii induced synergistic STAT1 phosphorylation and binding of aberrant STAT1-containing complexes to IFNγ consensus sequence oligonucleotides.

Furthermore, EMSA analysis demonstrated that STAT1 binds to the MD-2 promoter, indicating that STAT1 is an MD-2 transcription factor.

When treated with leukemia inhibitory factor, mouse M1 myeloid leukemia cells commit to a macrophage differentiation program that is dependent on Stat3 and involves the induction of Batf gene transcription via the binding of Stat3 to the Batf promoter.

Using chromatin immunoprecipitation, we verified that two sites among six putative STAT1 binding sites in the PRSS14/Epithin promoter were occupied by STAT1 upon activation.

PRMT2 colocalizes with STAT3 in hypothalamic nuclei, where it binds and methylates STAT3 through its Ado-Met binding domain.

Smad2 linker phosphorylated by extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) at the serine 255 residue interacts with STAT3 and p300 to transactivate, whereas carboxy-terminal unphosphorylated Smad3 interacts with STAT3 and protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 (PIAS3) to repress the Rorc and Il17a genes.

However, STAT1 and STAT5, which also exist in a constitutively phosphorylated state in v-src-transformed 32 Dcl3 cells, do not coimmunoprecipitate with v-Src, suggesting that these proteins either interact weakly with v-Src or are phosphorylated by a mechanism distinctive from that of STAT3.

The N-terminal domain (NTD) of nsp11 was responsible for STAT2 degradation and interacted with STAT2 NTD and the coiled-coil domain.

Interestingly, the N-terminal domain of nsp11 is responsible for inducing STAT2 degradation and directly interacts with STAT2 N-terminal domain.

Specifically, P protein interacted with STAT1 and subsequently inhibited STAT1 phosphorylation, whereas N protein neither interacted with STAT1 nor inhibited STAT1 phosphorylation as well as dimerization, suggesting that the N and P protein antagonistic effects were different.

B6 preferentially inhibited the phosphorylation of STAT3 by interacting with and inactivating JAK2, the main upstream kinase of STAT3.

We show that this gain of IFN activity results from the failure of mutant STAT2R148W to interact with ubiquitin-specific protease 18 , a key STAT2-dependent negative regulator of IFNα/β signaling.

Importantly, we found that STAT1 interacts with tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor-associated factor-6 (TRAF6) , a key mediator of TLR signaling after TLR challenge and that following activation, STAT1 translocates to the nucleus.

We also found that the nucleus PLAC2 bind with STAT1 and interact with RPL36 promoters but the cytoplasmic lncRNA PLAC2 inhibited STAT1 nuclear transfer, thereby decreasing RP36 expression, inhibiting cell proliferation and inducing cell cycle arrest.

Overexpression of Wwox markedly inhibited proliferation and metastasis of BC cells by suppressing STAT3 activation, which is to interact with JAK2 to inhibit JAK2 and STAT3 phosphorylation.

STAT-5 phosphorylation was detected in purified CD8+CD25+ Tregs from healthy and asthma subjects, indicating that STAT-5 has a role in their pathobiology.

JAK/STAT pathway mutations were detected in 8 of 10 (80 %) patients and involved STAT3 (n\240\=\240\7) and JAK3 (n\240\=\240\1).

The phosphorylation of the JAK-STAT signal transduction proteins was first detected via Western blotting to verify the regulatory effect of MSCs on RDS in newborn swines through the JAK-STAT signaling pathway.

In addition, similar STAT1-p65 co-binding modes were detected for IFNα + LPS and IFNγ + LPS up-regulated genes, which involved recruitment of STAT1 complexes preceding p65 to closely located GAS/NFκB or ISRE/NFκB composite sites already upon IFNα or IFNγ treatment.

RT-qPCR was employed to detect the relative mRNA expression level of C1QTNF1-AS1, miR-221-3p, SOCS3 and key genes in the JAK/STAT signaling pathway in HCC tissues and cells, and western blot analysis was conducted to detect the relative protein expression levels of SOCS3 and key proteins in the JAK/STAT signaling pathway in HCC tissues and cells.

STAT1 was detected in the nuclei of the CFK2 cells transfected with FGFR3 cDNA, indicating predominance of the JAK/STAT signaling pathway.

DNA-STAT complexes were detected in all Bcr/Abl-transformed cell lines and they were supershifted by antibodies against STAT1 and STAT5.

No STAT activity was detected in TCR-stimulated lymphocytes, indicating that the JAK/STAT pathway defined in this study constitutes an IL-2R-mediated signaling event which is not shared by the TCR.

Stattic, the STAT3 inhibitor, was used to block the activation of STAT3 in ESCC cell lines Eca-109 and Kyse-30, and the CCK8 assay was performed to detect the effect of Stattic on the viability of ESCC cells.

The protein expression levels of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) , tubulin, drosophila mothers against decapentaplegic protein (SMAD-1) , STAT3, and phosphorylated-STAT3 were detected by western immunoblot analysis in the groups: control, CSF, JAK/STAT inhibitor (AG490) , CSF-QNYZD, and CSF-XDZ (CSF-Xidezhen).

Phosphorylated Stat3 was detected in fetal lungs and, immunohistochemically, phosphorylated Stat3 was found to be co-localized in developing Clara cells, but not in ciliated cells.

The ubiquitination of STAT3 was detected by ubiquitination assay and the interaction between STAT3 and TRAF6 was measured by Co-Immunoprecipitation (Co-IP).

We introduced a lentiviral construct with 7-repeat Stat3-binding sequence to drive Renilla luciferase into ES cells, which can be used as a reporter to detect Stat3 activation by noninvasive bioluminescence imaging.

Instead, we found that Stat5 activates the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3 kinase) pathway by a delayed, cycloheximide-sensitive mechanism and that PI3 kinase activity is essential for the induction of cyclin D2 by Stat5.

IFNγ stimulates the tyrosine kinases Jak1 and Jak2, resulting in activation of the Stat1 transcription factor, whereas type 1 IFNs (IFNα/β) activate Jak1 and Tyk2, which mediate their effects through Stat1 and Stat2.

Here, we studied the role of serine/threonine phosphatases in STAT3 signaling in human antigen-specific CD4(+) T cell lines and cutaneous T cell lymphoma lines, expressing a constitutively activated STAT3.

In Th1 cells, IL-12 activated both STAT6 and STAT4, and IL-4 activated STAT6, but in both cases the Th1 phenotype remained.

In the present study, we further investigated the JAK/STAT signaling molecules activated by IL-27 and also the role of STAT1 in IL-27-mediated responses using STAT1-deficient mice.

In conclusion, STAT-5 is activated constitutively in PB leucocytes in patients with pSS, and basal STAT-5 phosphorylation seems to associate with hypergammaglobulinaemia, anti-SSB antibody production and purpura.

Thus, while about 60 % of CB CD4+ T cells could efficiently activate STAT6 in response to IL-4, less than 5 % of CB CD4+ T cells were able to activate the JAK/STAT pathway in response to IFN-γ, IL-12 or IL-2.

Together, our data demonstrated that SH479 ameliorated EAE by regulating the TH17/Treg balance through inhibiting the STAT3 and NF-κB pathways while activating the STAT5 pathway, suggesting that SH479 is a potential novel drug candidate for autoimmune diseases including MS.

Given the importance of the JAK/STAT pathway in activating microglia and inducing cytokine/chemokine expression, we investigated the therapeutic potential of inhibiting the JAK/STAT pathway using the JAK1/2 inhibitor, AZD1480.

Here we further analysed the block to STAT1/2 nuclear accumulation, showing that activated STAT1 accumulates in the cytoplasm in rotavirus-infected cells.

Cysteamine enhanced the binding of STAT3 to its DNA consensus sequences at 6 , 12 , and 24 \240\h after cysteamine by 1.5-, 1.8-, and 3.5-fold, respectively, and activated the expression of STAT3 target genes such as VEGF, Bcl-xL, Ref-1, and STAT3-induced feedback inhibitor, a suppressor of cytokine signaling 3.

The inhibition of STAT3 by a STAT3-decoy ODN, leading to cell death, involves the entrapment of activated STAT3 dimers in the cytoplasm.

Activation of signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT) proteins may be critical to their oncogenic functions as demonstrated by the development of B-cell lymphoma/leukemia in transgenic (TG) mice overexpressing a constitutively activated form of Stat5b.

Signal transducers and activator of transcription (STAT) proteins are often constitutively activated in leukocytes of HIV-1(+) individuals, which frequently show a dominant expression of a C-terminally truncated isoform of STAT5 (STAT5Δ).

In addition, CXCL12 selectively activates signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT)-5 whereas CCL5 activates STAT-1.

Each cytokine which utilizes the Jak-Stat signal transduction pathway activates a distinct combination of members of the Jak and Stat families.

Furthermore, phosphorylation of JAK2, STAT1 and STAT3 was affected, suggesting the involvement of activated JAK/STAT in response to Dex.

MSCs induced the phosphorylation of JAK and STAT, and they activated the JAK-STAT signal transduction of RDS in newborn swines.

While P is involved in the modulation of the Jak-Stat pathway through the cytoplasmic retention of interferon (IFN)-activated STAT1 (pSTAT1) , M interacts with the RelAp43-p105-ABIN2-TPL2 complex, to efficiently inhibit the nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) pathway.

The overexpression of miR-210 could markedly increase the transcriptional and translational levels of JAK2, STAT3, and NOS activate the JAK-STAT signaling pathway, promote the cell proliferation, and suppress the apoptosis.

JAK1 and JAK2 activate STAT1 in the cytoplasm at the heterodimeric gamma interferon (IFNγ) receptor, while JAK1 and TYK2 activate STAT1 and STAT2 at the type I IFN heterodimeric receptor.

Stat92E target genes were significantly upregulated in E(Pc)-mutant myeloid cells, indicating that loss of E(Pc) activates JAK/STAT signaling.

ThC induced phosphorylation of STAT5, suggesting that it activates Jak/STAT pathway as in the case of TPO.

STAT3 can be constitutively activated in a broad range of human cancers including solid as well as hematological tumors and overexpression of STAT3 has been observed in a wide-range of patient-derived tumor tissue samples that may contribute to dismal prognosis.

As to the molecular signaling cascade linking AMPK to STAT3, we disclosed that AMPK suppressed STAT3 not only by attenuating JAK signaling but also by activating nuclear factor erythroid-2-related factor-2 (Nrf2) , a redox-regulating transcription factor, which consequently increased the expression of small heterodimer protein (SHP) , thus repressing the transcriptional activity of STAT3.

Although known to be essential for liver production of acute-phase reactant proteins, many of which augment innate immune responses, molecular cloning of acute-phase response factor or STAT3 and the research this enabled helped establish the central function of Janus kinase (JAK) family members in cytokine signaling and identified a multitude of cytokines and peptide hormones, beyond interleukin-6 and its family members, that activate JAKs and STAT3, as well as numerous new programs that their activation drives.

Furthermore, we demonstrated that the JAK-STAT signaling pathway is activated in aged TSPCs, and AQP1 overexpression inhibited the JAK-STAT signaling pathway activation which indicated that AQP1 attenuates senescence and age-related dysfunction of TSPCs through the repression of JAK-STAT signaling pathway.

Moreover, intratracheal instillation of IL-4 and/or IL-13 robustly activates STAT6 and concomitantly upregulates SHH expression in mouse airway epithelia, whereas, in Club cell 10-kDa protein (CC10)-positive airway epithelial cells of children with asthma activated STAT6 closely correlates with the increased expression of SHH and high activity of SHH signaling.

BRCA1 overexpression in SiHa cells may upregulate STAT1 to activate the JAK/STAT signaling pathway, suggesting a mechanism for enhanced CCRT resistance.

STAT1 is known to be activated by EGFR, so we investigated the tyrosine kinase and found that EGFR was also constitutively phosphorylated in meningioma and was responsible for the aberrant phosphorylation of STAT1.

Expression of Janus kinase 3 (JAK3) or STAT5 in primary human CD4 T cells activated LTR transcription, while transactivation-incompetent dominant-negative STAT5 inhibited JAK3-induced LTR activity and infection of activated HIV-producing CD4 T-cells.

As SOCS3 is induced by activated signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) , and ALK activates STAT3, we hypothesized that SOCS3 may play a role in ALK+ ALCL pathogenesis via the Janus kinase 3 (JAK3)-STAT3 pathway.

Although STAT5 is known to regulate CIS expression, thrombin did not activate STAT5, and inhibitors of JAK2 (AG490) and JAK3 (WHI-P97 and WHI-P154) had little effect on thrombin-induced CIS expression.

As expected for cytokines that use gammac, recent studies indicate that IL-21 induces Janus kinase 1 (JAK1) and JAK3 activation to initiate signal transduction, but unlike these other gammac-dependent cytokines, which predominantly activate signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 (STAT5) , IL-21 preferentially activates STAT1 and STAT3.

Counterregulatory mechanisms protecting from overwhelming STAT activation are represented by protein inhibitors of activated STATs and the SOCS family proteins.

Mutation of the FERM domain of JAK1, which is critical for cytokine receptor association, or of the single tyrosine of IL-9Ralpha involved in STAT recruitment abolished this activity, indicating that JAK1 mutants need to associate with a functional IL-9Ralpha to activate STAT factors.

Hypoxia-induced activation of STAT3 was blocked by IL6 antibodies, the JAK inhibitor AG490 and the suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 (SOCS3) , implying that hypoxia-promoted IL6 secretion activates the JAK/STAT pathway in LMVEC.

Data obtained by electrophoretic mobility shift assay suggested that the activated Stat-3 protein associates with the human serum-inducible element (hSIE) DNA-probe derived from the interferon-gamma activated site (GAS) in the c-fos promoter, a common DNA sequence for Stat protein binding.

To assess whether HTLV-2 transformation may also result in constitutive activation of the Jak/STAT pathway, six interleukin-2-independent, HTLV-2-transformed T-cell lines were analyzed for the presence of activated Jak and STAT proteins by electrophoretic mobility shift assay.

Although a member of the STAT family, STAT3 has been reported to be constitutively activated in several v-Src-transformed cells, and it still remains unknown whether Jak molecules, which act upstream of STATs, are involved in the v-Src-induced activation mechanism of STAT3.

STAT3 was found to be constitutively activated in v-Src-transformed HAG-1 cells, but not in either non-transformed mock-transfected or activated c-H-ras-transfected HAG-1 cells, even though the other known STAT molecules are expressed.

These results indicate that STATs are activated through cytokine receptors by two distinct mechanisms, one dependent on receptor tyrosine phosphorylation and the other mediated by the JAK-STAT direct interaction.

We also provide evidence that the IRS pathway is independent of STAT-6, showing that JAK1 is essential for activating a STAT-independent pathway.

Gel mobility shift and immunoprecipitation/Western analysis showed that STAT5 is rapidly activated by G-CSF in cells expressing the wt G-CSF receptor, in addition to the previously reported STAT3 and STAT1.

Mutants lacking any tyrosine residues in the cytoplasmic domain maintain their ability to activate STAT5 and STAT1 but cannot activate STAT3, implying that STAT5 and STAT1 activation does not require receptor tyrosine phosphorylation.

Although IL-2 and IFN-alpha activated STAT1 alpha and STAT5, IL-2 predominantly activated STAT5, while IFN-alpha predominantly activated STAT1 alpha.

These results clearly indicated that gamma c is essential for activation of Jak3 and STAT6 in the signal transduction pathway of IL-4 in human B cells and that IL-13 does not utilize gamma c but activates STAT6 through an alternative pathway, which is not impaired in B cells of X-linked severe combined immunodeficiency patients.

Finally, in other cell types the correlation between JAK1 activation and the induction of STAT1 has suggested that JAK1 may activate STAT1.

We will summarize what we have learned about the molecular mechanisms of how Stat5 is activated by IL-2 family cytokines from in vitro biochemical studies as well as the role that is played by Stat5 in each of the cytokine signaling pathways from in vivo gene-targeting analyses.

Electrophoretic mobility shift assays demonstrated Stat5 as the only activated Stat factor in TEL-Jak2- and TEL-Jak1-expressing cells, whereas other Stats, namely Stat1 and Stat3, could be detected in TEL-JAK3-, TEL-TYK2-, and also in TEL-ABL-expressing Ba/F3 cells.

IL-2, IL-7, IL-9 and IL-15 activate STAT3 and STAT5, in contrast to IL-4, which activates STAT6.

In preactivated human T cells, STAT5 became activated in an IL-4-dependent fashion as assayed by IL-4-induced STAT5 translocation from the cytoplasm to the cell nucleus and by binding to cognate DNA.

Under normal conditions, JAK/STAT signaling reflects the influence of negative regulators of JAK/STAT, exemplified by the suppressor of cytokine signaling and protein inhibitor of activated STAT.

Expression of GP130 (glycoprotein 130) , STAT3 (signal transducer and activators of transcription 3) , PIAS3 (protein inhibitor of activated STAT 3) , and SOCS3 (suppressor of cytokine signaling 3) genes after stimulation with LIF or OSM was assessed using RT-qPCR (real-time PCR).

Morin inhibited activated Src, JAK-1, and JAK-2, all of which are linked to STAT3 activation, while up-regulating a protein inhibitor of activated STAT3, PIAS3.

We examined the anti-tumor mechanism of curcumin on STAT-3 and on the negative regulators of STAT-3, including suppressors of cytokine signaling proteins (SOCS-1 and SOCS-3) , protein inhibitors of activated STAT (PIAS-1 and PIAS-3) , and SH2 domain-containing phosphatases (SHP-1 and SHP-2) in ovarian and endometrial cancer cell lines.

Investigation of the mechanisms showed that although heroin use or heroin use plus HCV infection had little impact on the expression of the key positive regulators (IL-12 receptors, STAT-1, 3 , 4 , 5 , JAK-2, and TYK-2) in IL-12 pathway, heroin use or heroin use plus HCV infection induced the expression of suppressor of cytokine signaling protein-3 (SOCS-3) and protein inhibitors of activated STAT-3 (PIAS-3) , two key inhibitors of IL-12 pathway.

In this study, we analyzed the roles of an inhibitor of STAT, protein inhibitor of activated STAT (PIAS) 3 , in the development of lung cancer.

The expression levels of STAT3, JAK2, suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 (SOCS3) , and protein inhibitor of activated Stat3 (PIAS3) in the outer membranes of CSDHs were examined by immunostaining.

The Janus kinase (JAK)-signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) signaling pathway was activated in RSC96 cells treated with high glucose, which was indicated by increased STAT3 phosphorylation.

The fact that STAT3 could be activated also by oxidative stress make Puromycin Aminonucleoside (PAN) Nephrosis model very appropriate for examination of STAT3 expression changes in glomerular pathology.

Additional studies suggest that TGF-beta blockade of IFN-gamma activity in epithelia is via enhanced sequestering of STAT1 by pre-existing protein inhibitor of activated STAT1.

Infection of mice with HN878 and W4 was also associated with relatively higher levels of mRNA for a number of negative regulators of the Jak-Stat signaling pathway, such as suppressors of cytokine signaling (SOCS) 1 , 4 , and 5 , CD45, protein inhibitor of activated Stat1 (PIAS1) , protein tyrosine phosphatase nonreceptor type 1 (Ptpn1) , and protein tyrosine phosphatase nonreceptor type substrate 1 (Ptpns1).

Incomplete responders expressed larger amounts of STAT3, IRF2, and protein inhibitor of activated STAT1 (PIAS1) mRNAs compared to complete responders before IQ treatment.

Since STAT5 is directly activated by Janus kinases, therapeutic approaches designed to inhibit STAT3 activation or to recruit STAT3 phosphatases may be useful in altering the balance of activated STAT3 and STAT5 in favor a profile that would be beneficial in pathologies involving IL-6.

Further studies demonstrated CXCR4 and CXCR2 can both activated NF-κB and STAT3 signaling, while NF-κBp65 can then transcriptionally activate CXCR4 and STAT3 can activate CXCR2 expression.

We found that the expression of the endogenous inhibitor of STAT3, protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 (PIAS3) , positively correlates with STAT3 activation in normal cells.

STAT3 transcriptional activity can be negatively regulated by protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 (PIAS3).

Furthermore, silencing STAT3 inhibited basal, LPS and MDP stimulated NFKB protein expression and overexpression of protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 (Pias3) markedly decreased basal NFKB activity.

The expressions of JAK1, JAK2, STAT1, STAT3, suppressors of cytokine signaling (SOCS) 1 , SOCS3, protein inhibitors of activated STAT (PIAS) 1 , and PIAS3 were also measured by real-time quantitative reverse transcriptase-PCR.

Consistently, knockdown of BECN1 increased the phosphorylation of STAT3 and activated the STAT3 signaling pathway in CRC cells.

Tissue arrays of liver biopsies were used to study the expression of STAT1, STAT2, STAT5 and PIAS1 (protein inhibitor of activated STAT1).

Recently, STAT1 was found to become modified by PIAS (protein inhibitor of activated STAT)-mediated SUMO-1 (small ubiquitin-related modifier-1) conjugation at Lys703, but the regulation of this modification is largely unknown.

These genes are also regulated by the STAT1 inhibitor PIAS1 (protein inhibitor of activated STAT1).

Signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) is a critical mediator of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma)-induced transcription that is regulated through posttranslational modifications and through transacting proteins such as protein inhibitor of activated STAT1 (PIAS1).

Accordingly, we determined mRNA levels of IFN-gamma and IFN-gamma receptors, levels of IFN-gamma receptor-associated kinases (JAK1 and TYK2) and signalling molecules (signal transducer and activator of transcription-1 [ STAT1], STAT3, interferon-responsive-factor-1 [ IRF-1] and IRF-2) as well as inhibitors of cytokine signalling (protein inhibitor of activated STAT1 [ PIAS1] and suppressor of cytokine signalling 2 [ SOCS2]) in biopsies of anal condylomas, LSILs as well as HSILs from HIV-positive individuals by a semi-quantitative reverse transcribed polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method.

A potential mechanism for reduced NOS2 expression in CF is diminished signal transducer and activator of transcription-1 (STAT1) activity, possibly due to an increase in expression of protein inhibitor of activated STAT1 (PIAS1).

To explore some of the mechanisms of HCV resistance to interferon, the expression of STAT1 and its negative regulators, protein inhibitor of activated STAT (PIAS1) and suppressor of cytokine signalling (SOCS3) , in liver tissues of both inteferon responders and nonresponders in chronic HCV patients.

The phosphorylation of STAT3 (signal transducer and activator of transcription 3) , ERK1/2 (extracellular-regulated kinases 1/2) , Akt1/2/3, p-38, c-Raf and expression of SOCS3 (suppressor of cytokine signaling 3) , PIAS1/3 (protein inhibitors of activated STAT) was assessed by western blotting in the myocardium 24 h after the last injection.

The STAT-signalling pathway is highly vulnerable to THZ1 even in PTCL cells that carry the activating STAT3 mutation Y640F.

Chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments revealed that STAT5 transcriptionally activated cyclin D1 in a growth hormone-dependent fashion, thus providing a mechanism into how STAT5 enhances proliferation.

Given the importance of the STAT3 transcription factor in activating macrophages and neutrophils and augmenting inflammation, we investigated the therapeutic potential of inhibiting STAT3 activity using the small-molecule STAT3 inhibitor, LLL12.

Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) , a final \ switch\ that activates gene expression that leads to malignancy, is specifically reduced up to 88 % by these peptides but they do not affect STAT1.

Expression of JAK2 V617F triggers activation of Stat5, the only STAT normally activated by Epo, as well as activation of Stat1 and Stat3.

The JAK/STAT pathway is a highly conserved regulatory module activated by many cytokines, in which tyrosine-phosphorylated STATs (pSTATs) function as transcription factors.

STAT3 was found to be unphosphorylated in the ISRAA‑stimulated hPBMCs, and STAT3 was ubiquitously expressed in unstimulated cells, suggesting that ISRAA has a protein inhibitor of activated STAT (PIAS)-like activity, by functioning as a negative regulator of the effects of STAT3 on the Janus kinase (JAK)/STAT pathway.

The Janus kinase-signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK-STAT) signaling pathway was activated by WHI-131, accompanied by phosphorylation of STAT3 Ser727 and dephosphorylation of STAT6.

Ach exposure decreased STAT-1 methylation via activation of protein phosphatase 2 A and increased the protein inhibitor of activated STAT-1 (PIAS-1)-STAT-1 complex formation in both HCV(+) and HCV(-) cells, preventing ISG activation.

CLCF-1 increased phosphorylation of STAT3 in multiple cell types activated podocytes leading to formation of lamellipodia and decrease in basal stress fibers, increased glomerular albumin permeability, and increased STAT3 phosphorylation of peripheral blood cells and renal cortex.

A trigger of muscle protein loss is the Jak/Stat pathway, and indeed, we found that conditioned medium from C26 colon carcinoma (C26) or Lewis lung carcinoma cells activates Stat3 (p-Stat3) in C2C12 myotubes.

Moreover, resveratrol pretreatment up-regulated the phosphorylated forms of JAK1 and STAT3, as well as suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS) 3 protein expression in LPS activated cells, demonstrating that the JAK-STAT signaling pathway is involved in the anti-inflammatory effect exerted by resveratrol.

Importantly, overexpression of HMGN proteins did not induce the phosphorylation of STAT3 or activate STAT reporter genes.

Notably, STAT3 was not activated in the lungs of gp130(+/+) mice by NNK, and genetic normalization of STAT3 activation in gp130(F/F) : Stat3(-/+) mice had no effect on NNK-induced tumourigenesis.

We further characterized AAG8, for the first time to our knowledge, as a STAT3 activator and elucidated that it alternatively activated STAT3 in addition to IL6/JAK pathway.

The STAT3 pathway was activated using meteorin and inhibited using STAT3 inhibitor VII in the glial progenitor cell line BO-1 and in primary rat OPCs in vitro.

Signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) 3 was activated in LN and STAT3 inhibition could delay the onset of LN.

However, in the DSS model, the STAT4 transcription in CECs, which are the target cells of activated T cells in the gut, was downregulated by baicalin, suggesting that baicalein and baicalin mediated similar STAT expression in different cell types in autoimmune diseases.

These results reveal that STAT1 pS727 regulates growth and differentiation in JAK-STAT activated neoplasms and suggest that Mediator kinase inhibition represents a therapeutic strategy to regulate JAK-STAT signaling.

In addition, the signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) 1 and STAT3 signaling was activated by tyrosine phosphorylation in LN mouse renal tissue, indicating that the phosphorylated STAT1 (p-STAT1) and p-STAT3 were involved in kidney injury.

We found that STAT3 was the most activated STAT protein in PDAC tumors from KPC mice.

JAK1 is indispensable for the oncogenic activation of STAT1, STAT3, and STAT6 in ERBB2-expressing cancer cells, suggesting that ERBB2 receptor tyrosine kinase complexes do not directly activate these STAT proteins in\240\vivo.

In addition to their pleiotropic functions under physiological conditions, transcription factors STAT3 and STAT5 also have oncogenic activities, but how activated STATs are transported to the nucleus has not been fully understood.

tuberculosis inhibits the response to IFN-gamma by a mechanism distinct from either suppressor of cytokine signaling-1 inhibition of STAT1 phosphorylation or protein inhibitor of activated STAT interference with DNA binding, and indicate that other mechanisms of inhibition of IFN-gamma responses remain to be discovered.

Furthermore, baicalin inhibited STAT1 and activated STAT3 signaling pathways.

Mechanistically, we found that Blimp-1 can directly suppress Il-10, whereas, in the presence of activated STAT3, Blimp-1 works together with activated STAT3 to upregulate Il-10.

Inhibiting STAT3 activation with a small molecule inhibitor of JAK, an upstream kinase that phosphorylates and activates STAT3, synergistically increased the anti-tumor activity of gefitinib in vitro.

We have shown that STAT3 is constitutively activated in human gastric cancer, and that chronic IL-11-driven STAT3 transcriptional activity induces gastric tumourigenesis in the gp130(757FF) mouse model of gastric cancer development.

The transcription factor STAT3 (signal transducer and activator of transcription 3) was shown to be activated in cyst-lining cells in ADPKD and PKD mouse models and may drive renal cyst growth, but the mechanisms leading to persistent STAT3 activation are unknown.

The effects of either IL-4 or HDL were suppressed when macrophages were from STAT6(-/-) mice, but inhibitor studies suggested differential utilization of JAK isoforms by IL-4 and HDL to activate STAT6 by phosphorylation.

However, mice with cardiac myocyte restricted knockout of STAT3, a principal transcription factor activated by LIF, develop heart failure with age, and cardiac STAT3 levels are reported to be decreased in heart failure patients.

Transcriptional profiling of infected STAT3- and STAT6-deficient macrophages and parasitized Peyer\s patches from mice orally challenged with strain II+ROP16I suggested that ROP16 activated STAT5 to modulate host gene expression.

The results showed that DON and T-2 upregulated the messenger RNA (mRNA) expressions of interleukin (IL)-6 , IL-1β, tumor necrosis factor-α, JAK1-2, STAT1-3, and suppressors of cytokine signaling members and activated the tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT1 and STAT3 with a dose-dependent manner in RAW264.

Both signal transducers and activators of the transcription (STAT) 3 (tyr705 and ser727) and STAT1 (tyr701) were activated within 15 min of cytokine mixture exposure, while STAT1 (ser727) activated after 3 h.

STAT1 is activated by all three IFN receptor complexes and absence of STAT1 from mice increases their susceptibility to pathogens.

Both types of IFN signal through the Jak/STAT pathway to elicit antiviral activity, yet IFN-γ is thought to do so only through STAT1 homodimers, whereas type I IFNs activate both STAT1- and STAT2-containing complexes such as IFN-stimulated gene factor 3.

Overexpression of RhoH on the other hand caused an induction of STAT1 activity and western blot analysis revealed that activated STAT1 is phosphorylated on Tyr701.

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 2
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

We mapped the region of ORF6, which binds karyopherin alpha 2 , to the C terminus of ORF6 and show that mutations in the C terminus no longer bind karyopherin alpha 2 or block the nuclear import of STAT1.

We also show that N-terminal deletions of karyopherin alpha 2 that no longer bind to karyopherin beta 1 still retain ORF6 binding activity but no longer block STAT1 nuclear import.

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 3
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

The isoform importin α5 can bind phosphorylated cargos such as STAT1 and Epstein-Barr Virus Nuclear Antigen 1 , as well as the influenza virus polymerase subunit PB2.

Indeed, inhibition of importin α binding with STAT3 resulted in the attenuation of axonogenesis.

Previous work demonstrated the adapter importin-α3 binds to STAT3 and is required for nuclear import.

Coimmunoprecipitation experiments showed that in the presence of nsP2, STAT1 still effectively bound importin-α5.

We report here that among five ubiquitously expressed human importin alphas, importin alpha5 and alpha7, but not importin alpha1, alpha3, and alpha4 bind to Stat3 upon cytokine stimulation.

gamma-Activated sequence DNA elements efficiently inhibited STAT binding to importin alpha 5 suggesting that the DNA and importin alpha binding sites are close to each other in STAT dimers.

Here we show that baculovirus-produced and-activated STAT1 homodimers and STAT1-STAT2 heterodimers directly interacted with importin alpha 5 (NPI-1).

Our results demonstrate that miR551b-3p translocates to the nucleus with the aid of importin-8 (IPO8) and activates STAT3 transcription.

Biochemical and functional validation for one TF family establishes that axonal STAT3 is locally translated and activated upon injury, and is transported retrogradely with dynein and importin α5 to modulate survival of peripheral sensory neurons after injury.

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 4
'CD4',bind,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

Here, we found that EGCG enhanced IFN-γ-induced signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) activation in primary CD4(+) T cells from C57BL/6 mice and in a human leukemic CD4(+) T-cell line of Hut 78 cells, while it inhibited the classical pathway of IFN-γ signaling including activating phosphorylations of Janus kinase (JAK) 1 , JAK2 and STAT3, forming interferon-γ activated sequence (GAS)-binding STAT1 homodimers, and producing pro-inflammatory chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 9 (CXCL9).

In the CD4-bound state, however, V1/V2 loop was rearranged near the bound CD4 to support CD4 binding.

CD4 binding changes Env from a pretriggered (state-1) conformation to more open downstream conformations.

We applied chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by DNA sequencing using human CD4(+) T cells to detect candidate genes regulated by STAT5A and/or STAT5B, and quantitative-PCR in STAT5A or STAT5B knock-down (KD) human CD4(+) T cells to validate the findings.

Statistically significant differences were detected when TLR4 expression by CD4+ and CD8+ T cells was compared to stage of disease.

And miR-155-mimic and miR-155-antagomir were transfected into purified CD4(+) T cells respectively to detect miR-155 role in regulating STAT5 signaling.

Infection of CD4(+) T cells alone did not activate STATs, while ex vivo infection of PBMC did, indicating that non-T cells critical for shaping the immune response, e.

Stat4 is activated by the cytokines interleukin 12 and alpha interferon (IFN-alpha) and plays a significant role in directing development of naïve CD4(+) T cells to the Th1 phenotype.

We have further demonstrated that, among peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) , STAT5triangle up is activated preferentially in CD4(+) T cells.

IL-12 triggered intracellular signaling, as indicated by STAT-1 activation, appeared to mainly operative in activated CD4 (+) cells challenged with IL-12, but it was also initiated in CD8(+) lymphocytes in the presence of endothelial cells.

Using canonical pathway enrichment analysis, JAK/STAT signaling was identified as activated in both CD14(+) monocytes (P = 0.00955) and in CD4(+) lymphocytes (P = 0.000813) in BD.

To better define the role of STAT in TCR signaling, we activated the CD4/CD8-associated Lck kinase by co-crosslinking TCR and CD4/CD8 co-receptors in human peripheral blood T cells.

Thus, while about 60 % of CB CD4+ T cells could efficiently activate STAT6 in response to IL-4, less than 5 % of CB CD4+ T cells were able to activate the JAK/STAT pathway in response to IFN-γ, IL-12 or IL-2.

STAT5A/B-deficiency in mice causes, among other consequences, a reduced size and altered composition of the peripheral T-cell pool with predominance of an activated or memory-like population (CD4(+)/CD44(high)/CD62L(low)) and a proliferative deficiency following antigenic stimulation and subsequent IL-2 treatment.

Expression of Janus kinase 3 (JAK3) or STAT5 in primary human CD4 T cells activated LTR transcription, while transactivation-incompetent dominant-negative STAT5 inhibited JAK3-induced LTR activity and infection of activated HIV-producing CD4 T-cells.

These interacted with the IL-15 receptor complex on CD4(+) T cells, thus activating the Jak3 and STAT5 phosphorylation signalling pathway to induce CD40 ligand expression, T-cell proliferation and IFN-gamma production.

Taken together, our data suggest that FRA2 is a novel STAT5 target gene, regulated by IL-2 in activated CD4 T cells.

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 5
'CD8',bind,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

This signature is borne by memory CD8+ T cells, which exhibited an aging-related loss in binding of NF-κB and STAT factors.

Statistically significant differences were detected when TLR4 expression by CD4+ and CD8+ T cells was compared to stage of disease.

STAT3 variants that exhibit autonomous transactivation potential have been detected in 40 % of patients with T-cell large granular lymphocytic leukemia in clonally expanded CD8(+) T cells.

STAT-5 phosphorylation was detected in purified CD8+CD25+ Tregs from healthy and asthma subjects, indicating that STAT-5 has a role in their pathobiology.

CD8 T cells from a subset of untreated HIV-positive patients were unable to activate STAT5a and STAT5b proteins functionally in response to IL-2.

IL-12 triggered intracellular signaling, as indicated by STAT-1 activation, appeared to mainly operative in activated CD4 (+) cells challenged with IL-12, but it was also initiated in CD8(+) lymphocytes in the presence of endothelial cells.

To better define the role of STAT in TCR signaling, we activated the CD4/CD8-associated Lck kinase by co-crosslinking TCR and CD4/CD8 co-receptors in human peripheral blood T cells.

The results showed that chicken CD8α1 is a key regulator of the expression of genes that are associated and cooperate with transcription factors in the major histocompatibility complex class I and II promoter regions and activates Janus kinase (JAK) 1/2 , signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) , and suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS) 1 signaling-related genes.

In chronic HCV infection, CD8+γ-H2AX+ T lymphocytes are highly differentiated with shortened telomeres, are more frequent within the liver, are associated with severe fibrosis and fail to activate Jak/Stat pathways in response to IFN-α, IL-2 or IL-6, perhaps explaining treatment failure in those with severe fibrosis.

Using primary human CD8+ T cells, in this study, we identify IL-21 as a strong inducer of granulysin, demonstrate that IL-21 and IL-15 activate granulysin expression within CD8+ CD45RO+ T cells, and establish a role for Jak/STAT signaling in the regulation of granulysin within CD8+ T cells.

Moreover, PD-1 ligation in CD8+ T\240\cells activates STAT3 to increase FAO, inhibiting CD8+ T effector cell glycolysis and functions.

Finally, leptin enriched in mammary adipocytes and fat tissues downregulates CD8+ T\240\cell effector functions through activating STAT3-FAO and inhibiting glycolysis.

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 6
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT';'MHC',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'MHC',regulate,'STAT'

We found that STAT3 negatively regulated MICA expression after irradiation or heat shock, including in lymphocytes activated by CD3/CD28 ligation.

Interestingly, in the hypothyroid state, CMNS caused concomitant activation of two signaling pathways that are usually reciprocally regulated-AMPK and mTOR signaling-which manifested as increased β-oxidation, MHC-I expression, and protein synthesis.

The tyrosine phosphorylation of gp130 was enhanced, the phosphorylation of STAT3 and ERK (extracellular signal regulated kinase) 1/2 was increased and induction of the beta-myosin heavy chain (MHC) gene was observed in TG hearts without significant phenotypic changes.

In this review, we focus on an emerging paradigm in which the effectiveness of viruses, particularly human cytomegalovirus, to escape antiviral immune responses is significantly enhanced by their ability to inhibit MHC transcription and interferon (IFN)-stimulated (JAK/STAT) signal transduction.

Frequency of HLA-B,57:01 screening increased steadily since its first inclusion in treatment guidelines in the United States.

In contrast, the increase in HLA-ABC expression by CD8+ lymphocytes was associated with transition from 2 H4+ to 2 H4int status, which suggests that increased HLA-ABC expression occurs at an earlier stage in the acquisition of CD45RO in CD8+ cells than for CD4+ cells.

Statistical analyses of the associated genetic markers revealed that the HLA-Bw54 was the allele that showed primary association with silicosis and the frequencies of the C4 and HLA-DQ alleles were suggested to be increased due to their linkage disequilibrium with the HLA-Bw54.

Domatinostat increased the expression of antigen-presenting machinery (APM) genes and MHC class I and II molecules, along with CTL infiltration, in tumors of both immune phenotypes.

STAT3-TG manifested myocardial hypertrophy at 12 wk of age with increased expression of the atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) , beta-myosin heavy chain (MHC) , and cardiotrophin (CT)-1 genes.

While the expression of costimulatory, coinhibitory, MHC class II and CD83 molecules was enhanced in immature DC exposed to Stattic, the LPS induced up-modulation of these molecules was strongly repressed.

Vorinostat also induced apoptosis and cell-cycle arrest in the S phase, inhibited PI3K (p110α) , p-PI3K p55 (Tyr199) , and p-Akt (Ser473) protein expression and upregulated MICA expression in vitro and in vivo, and promoted NK-92 cell-mediated cervical cancer cell lysis.

This dominant-negative acting Stat-3 isoform significantly inhibited apoptosis induced by ligation of MHC-I.

Both isoforms can downregulate MHC class II, however they differ in a number of other immunomodulatory properties, such as the ability to bind the IL10 receptor and induce signaling through STAT3.

Interestingly, interleukin (IL)-7 selectively activated STAT1 and induced MHC class I in mature T but not B cells.

A monoclonal antibody (mAb) directed against the extracellular domain of the IFNAR1 chain of the human interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) receptor (IFN-alphaR) , which inhibits activation of the Jak-Stat signal transduction pathway, administered together with a subeffective dose of cyclosporine induced prolonged survival of skin allografts in major histocompatibility complex (MHC) divergent cynomolgus monkeys.

In this review, the latest understanding of the MICA-NKG2D system in viral HCC, particularly focused on its antitumor properties and the involvement of MICA SNPs, is summarized, followed by a discussion of targets for state-of-the-art cancer immunotherapy with personalized medicine in view.

MHC class I-related chain (MIC)-A plays a key role in activating natural killer T (NKT) cells and serves as a downstream target of STAT3.

Here we studied whether HLA-B27 modulates the phosphorylation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT-1) serine 727 residue and the localization of STAT-1 in Salmonella-infected human monocytic cells.

NK cell tolerance occurs upstream of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I mediated education, and is associated with deficient STAT4 phosphorylation.

Alterations of Jak-STAT components of interferon (IFN)-mediated signaling can contribute to the mechanism of cell resistance to IFN, leading to lack of MHC class I inducibility.

More distal signaling events after MHC-I ligation includes activation of the Jak/Stat pathway leading to Stat-3 activation, and activation of the PI3-kinase leading to JNK activation and apoptosis.

pestis were analyzed with state-of-the-art recently developed prediction algorithms aimed at mapping potential MHC class I binders.

Formation of a TCR-pMHC complex initiates T cell signaling via a poorly understood process, potentially involving changes in oligomeric state, altered interactions with CD3 subunits, and mechanical stress.

The number of genotypes and/or alleles for HLA-B,51 and HLA-B,52 alleles and TNF-α-308\240\A/G polymorphism in cases and control subjects was extracted, and statistical analysis was conducted using STATA 11.2 software.

Statistics also revealed heterogeneity of effects among MICA,A5.

Statistical analysis revealed a tendency for MICA,008 and MICB,008 to associate with susceptibility to illness when symptomatic versus asymptomatic cases (odds ratio [ OR] = 2.1 , p(v) = 0.03 , and OR = 10.4 , p = 0.0096 , respectively) were compared.

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 7
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT';'MHC',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'MHC',inhibit,'STAT'

Vorinostat also induced apoptosis and cell-cycle arrest in the S phase inhibited PI3K (p110α) , p-PI3K p55 (Tyr199) , and p-Akt (Ser473) protein expression and upregulated MICA expression in vitro and in vivo, and promoted NK-92 cell-mediated cervical cancer cell lysis.

This dominant-negative acting Stat-3 isoform significantly inhibited apoptosis induced by ligation of MHC-I.

In this study, we demonstrated that Tim-3 inhibits the expression of major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I) in macrophages at both the messenger ribonucleic acid and protein levels by inhibiting the STAT1-NLRC5 signaling pathway.

SOCS1 and STAT1 inhibitors significantly inhibited IFN-γ-induced CIITA promoter activity and MHC class II expression.

The parasite also prevents STAT1 activity, resulting in decreased levels of IFN-gamma-stimulated MHC surface antigen expression.

Mechanistically, PPAPs 1-4 reduce MHC proteins by decreasing the expression and phosphorylation of the transcription factor STAT1 involved in MHC upregulation mediated by IFN-γ.

stats" software analysis, we found that the most associated region was located in the HLA class I region and limited by HLA-A and D6S265 loci (p = 0.00056).

Mechanistically, Stat1-/- T cells have reduced expression of Nlrc5 and multiple MHC class I molecules that serve to protect cells from NK cell-mediated killing.

We identified a requirement for Notch2-dependent cDC2s, but not Batf3-dependent cDC1s or Klf4-dependent cDC2s, in promoting TFH and GC B cell formation in response to sheep red blood cells and inactivated Listeria monocytogenes This effect was mediated independent of Il2ra and several Notch2-dependent genes expressed in cDC2s, including Stat4 and Havcr2 Notch2 signaling during cDC2 development also substantially reduced the efficiency of cDC2s for presentation of MHC class II-restricted antigens, limiting the strength of CD4 T cell activation.

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 8
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT';'importin',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'importin',inhibit,'STAT'

Importin α4 and α5 siRNA inhibited the nuclear localization of p65 and STAT3 and prevented cell proliferation and monocyte adhesion.

ARHI associates directly with STAT3, also forms complex with importinβ, and prevents formation of RanGTPase-importinβ complex, which is essential for transporting STAT3 into the nucleus.

Strikingly, combined LIF+HOS treatment stimulated persistent STAT3 Y705 and S727 phosphorylation and nuclear localisation, but STAT3 nuclear accumulation was slowed during HOS, likely reflecting the mislocalisation of Ran and importin-α3 during HOS that also reduced the nuclear localisation of classical importin-α/β-recognised nuclear import cargoes.

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 9
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT';'importin',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'importin',regulate,'STAT'

Taken together, these data indicate that the inducible nuclear import of NF-kappa B, AP-1, NFAT, and STAT1 in Jurkat T cells can be regulated by NLS peptide delivered noninvasively to the cytoplasm of Jurkat T cells to target members of the importin (karyopherin)-alpha beta NLS receptor complex.

In the pre-ulcerogenic stage, cysteamine induced STAT3 tyrosine phosphorylation, its translocation to nuclei, an increased expression and nuclear translocation of importin α and β in the rat duodenal mucosa.

Instead, importin α4 and α5 (multipurpose nuclear transport receptors) , validated as targets of miR-223, were responsible for the nuclear transport of p65 and STAT3.

Biochemical and functional validation for one TF family establishes that axonal STAT3 is locally translated and activated upon injury, and is transported retrogradely with dynein and importin α5 to modulate survival of peripheral sensory neurons after injury.

Both in vitro binding and in vivo functional assays reveal that STAT5 nuclear import is mediated by the importin-α3/β1 system independently of STAT5 activation by tyrosine phosphorylation.

To determine whether STAT3 nuclear import is mediated by the importin-α/importin-β1 heterodimer, the effects of siRNA to importin-β1 were evaluated.

Mechanistic experiments showed that STAT3 pathway partially mediated the effect of FA after which the interaction between STAT3 and importin α5 was enhanced.

In cells activated with IFN gamma, IFN gamma was found to as part of a complex that contained STAT1 alpha and the importin-alpha analog Npi-1, which mediates STAT1 alpha nuclear import.

These findings suggest that the extracellular signal-dependent nuclear transport of STAT3 is mediated by various importin alphas, importin beta, and Ran.

Although IFN-induced nuclear import of STATs is mediated by the importin/Ran transport system, no classic nuclear localization signal (NLS) has been found in STATs.

This inhibition of IRF-1 expression correlated with a defective nuclear translocation of STAT1alpha, and further analyses revealed that the IFN-gamma-induced STAT1alpha association with the nuclear transport adaptor importin-alpha5 was compromised in L.

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 10
'CD4',bind,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT';'CD4',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'STAT'

In this reason, TRAF2 and TRAF5 in naïve CD4+ T cells negatively regulate IL-6-mediated activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) that is required for the development of IL-17-secreting CD4+ TH17 cells.

IL-4-induced AID expression is mediated via the JAK/STAT signaling pathway, and can be negatively regulated by the JAK phosphatase activity of CD45.

Taken together, our data suggest that FRA2 is a novel STAT5 target gene regulated by IL-2 in activated CD4 T cells.

And miR-155-mimic and miR-155-antagomir were transfected into purified CD4(+) T cells respectively to detect miR-155 role in regulating STAT5 signaling.

Up regulated STAT 3 and down regulated TIMP-1 were significantly different in CD47 + MSC + BiAb + MB compared with CD47 + MSC or CD47 + MSC + BiAb.

Finally, the potential of this technology to analyze rare primary cell populations is shown in a study of differential STAT protein phosphorylation in interleukin (IL)-2-stimulated CD4(+) CD25(+) regulatory T cells.

High concentrations of CD40L stimulate CD40, and consequently STAT enzyme system inhibits the expression ofnonstructural proteins ofHCV NS3 and NS5A and E2 core in infected human hepatocytes.

In contrast, the increase in HLA-ABC expression by CD8+ lymphocytes was associated with transition from 2 H4+ to 2 H4int status, which suggests that increased HLA-ABC expression occurs at an earlier stage in the acquisition of CD45RO in CD8+ cells than for CD4+ cells.

Topical STAT-6-IP treatment reduced production of Th2 cytokines, demonstrated increased expression of IL-10 and reduced frequency of cultured IL-4 positive CD4+ T cells derived from treated mice, suggesting that STAT-6-IP treatment may be immunomodulatory.

Different from naive CD4(+) T cells, IL-12 increasing the generation of IL-21(+) IFN-γ(+) CD4(+) T cells from memory CD4(+) T cells was only involved in STAT-4 pathway but not STAT-1.

Meanwhile, CD4(+)/CD25(+) regulatory T cells more significantly increase in NZB/W F1 mice receiving cystamine than in those mice receiving PBS, accompanied by significantly reduced IL-6/phosphorylated STAT-3 expression.

Ongoing caspase-3 activation functionally impacts on MS monocyte properties influencing the STAT-3/IL-16 axis, thus, driving increased expression and massive release of the bio-active IL-16 triggering and perpetuating CD4+ T cell migration.

Similar to Stat5b-/- mice, this patient exhibited increased CD4+ TEM cells in the peripheral blood.

Levels of STAT1 protein as measured by median fluorescence intensity (MFI) were significantly increased in SLE CD4 T cells when compared with rheumatoid arthritis patients and healthy controls and were positively correlated with disease activity.

In addition, vaccination with Stat3∆/∆ CD103+ cDC1s elicited increased amounts of tumor antigen-specific CD8+ T cells and IFN-γ+ CD4+ T cells in tumors and tumor-draining lymph nodes versus phosphate-buffered saline (PBS)-treated animals.

CD4 blockade did not suppress the increase in IFN-γ-induced STAT1 activation in CD4(+) T cells by EGCG.

IL-2-induced phosphorylation of STAT5 (P-STAT5) in both Treg and Teff, which was significantly higher for CD4(+) CD25(bright) Treg (increased by 71 % , mean) than for CD4(+) CD25(neg) Teff (increased by 42 %).

Following PHA/IL-2 activation, CD8+ T cells from STAT4 risk allele carriers displayed increased levels of STAT4 resulting in increased pSTAT4 in response to IL-12 and IFN-α, and an augmented IL-12-induced IFN-γ production in CD8+ and CD4+ T cells.

Al2O3 NPs exposure led to suppression of PTPN6 and phosphorylation of STAT3, culminating in increased expression of the apoptotic marker PDCD4.

THC+CBD treatment also caused a decrease in the levels of brain infiltrating CD4+ T cells and pro-inflammatory molecules (IL-17, INF-γ, TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, and TBX21) , while increasing anti-inflammatory phenotype such as FoxP3, STAT5b, IL-4, IL-10, and TGF-β.

Aging is associated with organ-specific numerical changes in DC subsets, and DC activation status, and increased lipid content in pDCs and CD4(-) CD8α(+) DCs.

Clinical data, cohort characteristics, success probability, CD4 increase rate, CD4 cell status link to disease states, and adverse-event probability were taken from the MOTIVATE trials and other published literature.

We demonstrate in this study that activation of primary human CD4(+) T lymphocytes increases LFA-1 affinity and avidity states, two events promoting the early events of the HIV-1 replication cycle through interactions between virus-embedded host ICAM-1 and LFA-1 clusters.

We further generated jacalin-induced CD4+ T cell blasts, examined the effects of CD28XL, and observed enhanced up-regulation of p38 and activation of STAT-6, Bcl-2, and Bcl-xL.

IL-7 stimulation not only promoted proliferation, cytokines secretion, and STAT-5 phosphorylation in lung-resident CD14+ monocytes, but also enhanced CD14+ monocytes-induced Th1 and T follicular helper cells activation, which presented as elevated interferon-γ and IL-21 secretion by CD4+ T cells.

Moreover, imiquimod significantly reduced the mRNA expression of several transcription factors, including Bcl-6, c-Maf, Batf3, Nfatc2 and Stat3, and enhanced the expression of Prdm1 and Stat5b in CD4+T cells.

For example, it is well known that the activation of the signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) signaling pathway plays a central role in interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma)-induced microglial CD40 expression.

We further show that IL-17 can directly act on non-Th17 effector CD4+ T cells to induce suppressive resistance, and this resistance can be reversed by blockade of IL-1β, IL-6, or STAT3.

Here, we have studied STAT-4 in human monocyte-derived DC, and we demonstrated that its expression can be induced by multiple stimuli, such as the ligands for TLR-4, TLR-2, and TLR-3, different pathogens, CD40 ligand, and the proinflammatory cytokines TNF-alpha and IL-1beta.

Both lineages require signal transducer and activator of transcription (Stat) 4 activation for IFN-gamma induced by interleukin (IL)-12/IL-18 signaling, but only CD4(+) T cells require Stat4 for IFN-gamma induction via the TCR pathway.

Stimulation of naive CD4(+) T cells with IL-4 induces Th2 development via the activation of signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT) 6.

The janus kinase (Jak) 3 and signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) pathway play a critical role in interleukin-2 (IL-2)-induced CD4(+) T cell proliferation.

Binding of IFNα to its receptor expressed on primary CD4+ T cells did not induce activation of the canonical or non-canonical NFκB pathway but did induce phosphorylation of STAT1, 3 and 5 proteins.

Like IL-15, these cytokines were found to increase the phosphorylation of STAT5 and Akt and transcription of antiapoptotic mediator bcl-xL Several small-molecule inhibitors targeting the JAK/STAT pathway blocked proliferation elicited by IL-2 and IL-15, but only an inhibitor targeting the PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway blocked proliferation induced by IL-15 as well as the CD4+ T-cell cytokines.

We show that engagement of CD40 induces tyrosine phosphorylation and activation of Jak3 as well as of STAT3.

Signal transducers and activators of transcription 5 (STAT5) are cytokine induced signaling proteins, which regulate key immunological processes, such as tolerance induction, maintenance of homeostasis, and CD4 T-effector cell differentiation.

The increases in STAT1 activation and apoptosis induced by EGCG in IFN-γ-activated CD4(+) T cells were almost completely abolished by a selective Src family kinase inhibitor, SU6656.

CD4 T cell stimulation with IL-6 induces the synthesis of CIS, which is encoded by a gene known to be regulated by STAT5.

nucleatum promoted secretion of cytokines (TNF-α, IFN-γ, IL-1β, IL-6, and IL-17) , activated STAT3 signaling pathway, and induced proliferation of CD4+ T cell and differentiation of Th1 and Th17 subsets.

As in UC, patients with SR uveitis have a subpopulation of SR CD4(+) cells that are a potential target for intervention with anti-IL-2 therapies, including inhibitors of JAK/STAT signaling.

Approaches including the use of fully humanized anti-CD20 and CD19 monoclonals, blocking interferons, inhibiting Bruton\s tyrosine kinase (BTK) , blocking the CD40 ligand (CD40L) , utilizing an analogue of the Fc[Latin Small Letter Gamma]RIIB and an IL12-23 blocker and targeting the JAK-STAT pathway have met end points in phase II and III trials.

Indeed, compared with naive CD4 T cells, nTreg expressed elevated levels of GATA-3 independent of STAT-6.

Here, we studied the role of serine/threonine phosphatases in STAT3 signaling in human antigen-specific CD4(+) T cell lines and cutaneous T cell lymphoma lines expressing a constitutively activated STAT3.

Furthermore, rescue of FMN from axotomy-induced cell death in recombination activating gene (RAG)-2 -/- mice (lacking T and B cells) could be achieved only by reconstitution with CD4(+) T cells expressing functional STAT6 protein.

The number of CD4+, CD8+ cells and macrophages expressing nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB) , STAT-4 and IFN-gamma proteins as well as endothelial adhesion molecule-1 in endothelium is increased in mild/moderate disease.

Analysis of spleen cells indicates that CD4, CD8 cells generate IFN-γ and natural killer cells express IL-13 in STAT-1 knockout animals.

IL-16 selectively regulates migration of all CD4 expressing T cells regardless of their activation state, which is of critical importance for immune modulation and potential therapy of MS.

IL-12 and IFN-γ make Naive CD4+ T cells highly express T-bet and STAT4 and differentiate to TH1 cells, while IL-4 make Naive CD4+ T cells highly express STAT6 and GATA3 and differentiated to TH2 cells.

In addition, it induced the apoptosis of MOG-stimulated CD4+ T cells probably through modulating STAT3/Bcl-2/Bax signaling pathways.

However, administration of γc cytokines such as IL-15 led to paralysis/depression of CD4 T-cells that was mediated through transient expression of SOCS3 that inhibited the STAT5 signaling pathway.

To determine which CD4(+) T cell subset mediates FMN survival, the facial nerve axotomy paradigm was applied to STAT4-deficient (-/-) and STAT6-/- mice.

STAT6-deficient CD4(+) betabeta T cells produced IL-4 and intraperitoneal injection of anti-IL-4 monoclonal antibody in the nondiseased TCRalpha(-/-) and STAT6 double-deficient mice prevented the colitis formation, thus indicating that the cells differentiated into the Th2 phenotype have the ability to mediate the development of the colitis in the absence of STAT6.

The recombinant human CCL11 protein increased the proportion of CD4+CD25+Foxp3+ Treg cells, the expression of CCR3 and Foxp3, and the release of IL‑2 and TGF‑β1 in non‑tumor‑associated CD4+ T\240\cells via the STAT5 signaling pathway.

In CD4(+) T cells, PTP-BL deficiency leads to increased and prolonged activation of STAT4 and STAT6, and consequently enhanced T helper 1 (Th1) and Th2 cell differentiation.

Here, we showed that CD4+ T cells carrying a mutant gp130 that transduces the SHP2/Gab/MAPK pathway but not the STAT3-mediated one failed to develop into Th17, while CD4+ T cells whose mutant gp130 transduces the STAT3 signal only generated Th17, indicating that IL-6 acts directly on T cells through the tyrosine residues of gp130 required for STAT3 activation to promote the development of Th17.

These mice expressed strikingly increased nuclear STAT-4 levels in lamina propria CD4+ T lymphocytes upon systemic administration of dinitrophenyl-keyhole limpet hemocyanin and developed chronic transmural colitis characterized by infiltrates of mainly CD4+ T lymphocytes.

CD4+ T\240\cells isolated from patients with BC or healthy individuals were incubated with anti‑CCL11 neutralizing antibodies or recombinant human CCL11 protein, in the presence or absence of a STAT5 inhibitor.

CD4 binding changes Env from a pretriggered (state-1) conformation to more open downstream conformations.

BMS-378806 (here called BMS-806) blocks CD4-induced conformational changes in Env important for entry and is hypothesized to stabilize a state-1-like Env conformation, a key vaccine target.

To test whether defective IL-7 signaling could be an etiologic or contributing factor in ICL, peripheral blood mononuclear cells from patients with ICL (median CD4 T-cell count, 160 cells/μL) and healthy controls (median CD4 T-cell count, 582 cells/μL) were evaluated for expression of IL-7Rα chain (CD127) and intracellular phosphorylated STAT-5 (a marker of γc cytokine signaling) after cytokine stimulation.

This novel " heterotrimer" (p-IL-4Ralpha, CD40/JAK3) is functional and controls STAT3 phosphorylation and CD40 expression, as shown by use of the specific JAK3 inhibitor WHI-P31.

In combination with CD4mc they have been shown to stabilize an antibody-vulnerable Env conformation, known as State 2 A.

Multivariate analysis incorporating tumor staging, treatment status, and smoking history revealed that treatment status had the most significant impact on HPV-specific CD8+ and CD4+ T cell immunity.

TSA was used to profile Stat1 phosphorylation in primary immune system cells, which revealed heterogeneity in various populations, including CD4+ FoxP3+ regulatory T cells.

Statistical analyses of data obtained from infection of SCID-hu mice with patient ACH142 R5 clones revealed that only the AIDS-associated clone significantly depleted CD4(+) thymocytes from SCID-hu mice.

Statistical analysis revealed that the CXCR4 mRNA level correlates negatively with the protein expression of CD133, CD44, CD24 and CDCP1 in cell lines and xenografts.

Consistent with its role in T cell proliferation and apoptosis, blockade of Tim-3 on CD4(+) CD25(+) T cells promoted expansion of Teffs more substantially than Tregs through improving STAT-5 signaling, thus correcting the imbalance of Foxp3(+) Tregs/Foxp3(-) Teffs that was induced by HCV infection.

Both T-bet Tg mice and IFN-γ-/--over-expressing T-bet (T-bet Tg/IFN-γ-/-) mice showed inhibition of retinoic acid-related orphan receptor (ROR) γt expression and IL-17 production by CD4+ T cells cultured under conditions that promote Th-17 differentiation, and decreased IL-6 receptor (IL-6R) expression and signal transducer and activator of transcription-3 (STAT-3) phosphorylation in CD4+ T cells.

An increase in S1PR1 in CD4(+) T\240\cells promotes STAT3 activation and JAK/STAT3-dependent Treg tumor migration, whereas STAT3 ablation in T\240\cells diminishes tumor-associated Treg accumulation and tumor growth.

Accordingly, STAT3 silenced MDDC promoted a higher IFNγ production by CD4(+) naïve T cells.

Transfer of CD8(+) but not CD4(+) T cells, purified from infected WT mice, into STAT6(-/-) mice successfully prevented formation of cysts in the brain.

In this study, we demonstrate that IFN-alphabeta, although antiproliferative in wild-type CD4(+) or CD8(+) T cells act as strong mitogens on their STAT1(-/-) counterparts.

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 11
'CD4',bind,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT';'CD4',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'STAT'

However, administration of γc cytokines such as IL-15 led to paralysis/depression of CD4 T-cells that was mediated through transient expression of SOCS3 that inhibited the STAT5 signaling pathway.

In this review, we summarize the current understanding of the role for TRAF2 and TRAF5 in the regulation of IL-6-driven differentiation of pro-inflammatory CD4+ T cells, especially focusing on the molecular mechanism by which TRAF2 and TRAF5 inhibit the JAK-STAT pathway that is initiated in the IL-6 receptor signaling complex.

, including suppressing the differentiation of CD4+ T cells by inhibiting the expression and production of T cell lineage-specific master regulators and cytokines and directly suppressing the cytokine-induced Janus kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK/STAT) signalling pathways.

Expression of Janus kinase 3 (JAK3) or STAT5 in primary human CD4 T cells activated LTR transcription, while transactivation-incompetent dominant-negative STAT5 inhibited JAK3-induced LTR activity and infection of activated HIV-producing CD4 T-cells.

Moreover, triggering of CD45 with anti-CD45 Abs can inhibit IL-4-induced AID expression, and this CD45-mediated AID inhibition correlated with the ability of anti-CD45 to suppress IL-4-activated JAK1, JAK3, and STAT6 phosphorylations.

Second, the development of CD4(+) CD25(+) immunoregulatory T cells was impaired in Stat5a(-/-) mice, as indicated by a significant decrease in the number of CD4(+) CD25(+) T cells in Stat5a(-/-) mice.

IL-6-induced phosphorylation of STAT3 was decreased in CD4(+) T cells from patients with high plasma IL-6 levels and constitutive STAT3 phosphorylation.

EGCG also induced a higher Treg/Th17 cell ratio in CD4(+) T-cell differentiation by decreasing the ratio of STAT3/STAT5 expression in DIO mice.

Patients with STAT5b deficiency have decreased numbers of regulatory CD4(+) CD25(high) T cell (Treg) despite their STAT5a levels being normal.

Infection of STAT1 R274W mice was associated with paradoxically decreased expression of IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs) and gamma interferon (IFN-γ) , likely secondary to defective CD4+ and CD8+ T cell responses, including diminished numbers of antigen-specific CD8+ T cells.

Inoculation of Stat1R274Q/R274Q mice with Candida albicans elicited decreased IL-17-producing CD4+RORγt+ cells.

Enfuvirtide-based salvage therapy induced a progressive restoration of naïve and central memory CD4 T cells, associated with a decrease in their activation state, suppression of premature priming for AICD and increased expression of Ki67.

Notably, over-expression of SOCS-1/3 in CD4(+) T cells prevented JAK/STAT activation.

It acts as post-attachment inhibitor by binding CD4 2 nd domain of T lymphocyte and preventing HIV connection to CCR5 or CXCR4 and has been recently approved by Food and Drug Administration in the United States of America as a new intravenous antiretroviral agent for heavily treated HIV adults with multi-drug resistant infection.

Pitavastatin treatment inhibited the phosphorylation of signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) 3 and STAT4, which have key roles in the Th1 and Th17 lineage commitment, respectively, in the heart, and suppressed production of Th1 cytokine interferon-γ and Th17 cytokine interleukin-17 from autoreactive CD4(+) T cells.

simplex, and among the glycosides, G3 exhibited the strongest inhibitory effect on immune responses, including suppressing the differentiation of CD4+ T cells and directly suppressing the cytokine-induced JAK/STAT signaling pathways.

TSPO ligands inhibited the production of interferon γ (IFN-γ) by memory CD4+ T-cells and the differentiation of naïve CD4+ T-cells into Th1 cells via suppressing the activity of the corresponding transcription factors as indicated by reduced expression of T-bet and down-regulation of STAT1, STAT4 and STAT5 phosphorylation.

The mechanism study showed that HHX-5 significantly inhibited STAT1 signaling pathway in macrophages and suppressed STAT1, STAT4, STAT5, and STAT6 signaling pathways in naive CD4+ T cells.

CD4 blockade did not suppress the increase in IFN-γ-induced STAT1 activation in CD4(+) T cells by EGCG.

The first year after rATG, CD4+, and CD8+ T cells were affected in their IL-7-dependent phosphorylation of STAT5 (pSTAT5) which was most outspoken in the CD8+ memory population.

Topical STAT-6-IP treatment reduced production of Th2 cytokines, demonstrated increased expression of IL-10 and reduced frequency of cultured IL-4 positive CD4+ T cells derived from treated mice, suggesting that STAT-6-IP treatment may be immunomodulatory.

STAT5 molecules are key components of the IL-2 signaling pathway, the deficiency of which often results in autoimmune pathology due to a reduced number of CD4(+) CD25(+) naturally occurring regulatory T (Treg) cells.

IL-9 induced activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) 1 , STAT3, and STAT5 and reduced the expression of activation markers, such as CD45, CD14, CD68, and CD11b in inflammatory macrophages stimulated in vitro with lipopolysaccharide and interferon (IFN)-γ.

This led to impaired STAT tyrosine phosphorylation in response to IL-2 and IL-21 reduced expression of IL-2 target genes in patient CD4+ T cells, and reduced cell proliferation in response to IL-2 stimulation.

STAT5A/B-deficiency in mice causes, among other consequences, a reduced size and altered composition of the peripheral T-cell pool with predominance of an activated or memory-like population (CD4(+)/CD44(high)/CD62L(low)) and a proliferative deficiency following antigenic stimulation and subsequent IL-2 treatment.

We identified a requirement for Notch2-dependent cDC2s, but not Batf3-dependent cDC1s or Klf4-dependent cDC2s, in promoting TFH and GC B cell formation in response to sheep red blood cells and inactivated Listeria monocytogenes This effect was mediated independent of Il2ra and several Notch2-dependent genes expressed in cDC2s, including Stat4 and Havcr2 Notch2 signaling during cDC2 development also substantially reduced the efficiency of cDC2s for presentation of MHC class II-restricted antigens, limiting the strength of CD4 T cell activation.

Moreover, STAT1 overexpression was associated with reduced survival in CD4+ T cells undergoing lymphopenia-induced proliferation (LIP).

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 12
'CD8',bind,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT';'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

In contrast, the increase in HLA-ABC expression by CD8+ lymphocytes was associated with transition from 2 H4+ to 2 H4int status, which suggests that increased HLA-ABC expression occurs at an earlier stage in the acquisition of CD45RO in CD8+ cells than for CD4+ cells.

We show that memory T cells in kidney transplant patients, in particular after rATG treatment, have decreased cytokine responsiveness by impaired phosphorylation of STAT5 and have increased expression of coinhibitory molecules, processes which were correlated in CD8+ T cells.

In vivo studies reveal that a combination of Suprastat and anti-PD1 immunotherapy enhances antitumor immune response, mediated by a decrease of protumoral M2 macrophages and increased infiltration of antitumor CD8+ effector and memory T-cells.

STAT1 levels increased the prognostic and predictive value of intratumoural CD8+ T cells, confirming their synergistic role as biomarkers in HGSC.

Molecular events constantly induced in the CD8 cells within the BM of untreated mice include increase of both phosphorylated STAT-5 and phosphorylated p38 intracellular levels, and the reduction of CD127 membrane expression.

Based on these studies in mice and observations in human cancer patients, the authors propose treatments designed to regulate STAT3 activation, which are correlated with increased cytolytic activity of CD8(+) T cells in mouse models.

In addition, vaccination with Stat3∆/∆ CD103+ cDC1s elicited increased amounts of tumor antigen-specific CD8+ T cells and IFN-γ+ CD4+ T cells in tumors and tumor-draining lymph nodes versus phosphate-buffered saline (PBS)-treated animals.

Following PHA/IL-2 activation, CD8+ T cells from STAT4 risk allele carriers displayed increased levels of STAT4 resulting in increased pSTAT4 in response to IL-12 and IFN-α, and an augmented IL-12-induced IFN-γ production in CD8+ and CD4+ T cells.

Aging is associated with organ-specific numerical changes in DC subsets, and DC activation status, and increased lipid content in pDCs and CD4(-) CD8α(+) DCs.

We further found that interferon-γ (IFNγ) , which is produced predominantly by lupus CD8+ T cells, is the key factor that enhances IDO activity in allogeneic MSCs and that it is associated with IFNGR1/JAK-2/STAT signaling pathways.

STAT3 blockade significantly enhanced the expansion of potent iTregs and permitted CD8(+) cytolytic effector function.

Conversely, constitutive STAT5 activation profoundly enhanced effector and memory CD8 T-cell survival and augmented homeostatic proliferation, AKT activation, and BCL2 expression.

Transfer of splenic adherent cells from WT into STAT6(-/-) mice induced activation of CD8(+) T cells and decreased the number of cysts in the brain.

Remarkably, the Stat5 transgene potently induced development of CD8+ T cells, even in mice expressing a class II-restricted TCR transgene, with resulting CD8+ T cell lymphomas.

The number of CD4+, CD8+ cells and macrophages expressing nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB) , STAT-4 and IFN-gamma proteins as well as endothelial adhesion molecule-1 in endothelium is increased in mild/moderate disease.

Analysis of spleen cells indicates that CD4, CD8 cells generate IFN-γ and natural killer cells express IL-13 in STAT-1 knockout animals.

Irrespective of HIV-1 status, T cells from BAL expressed higher levels of the beta-chemokine receptor (CCR) 5 than peripheral blood T cells, in particular the CD8(+) T cells of HIV-1-infected persons showed elevated CCR5 expression.

However, genes encoding several notable immune checkpoint molecules, including LAG-3, TIM-3 and CTLA-4, cytolytic molecules, such as granzymes A, B and H and perforin, as well as SOCS3, STAT1, JAK2 and JAK3 cytokine signalling genes were found to be increasingly expressed by VL patient CD8+ T cells.

This was the case for CD8+ T cells transfected to express an active form of STAT5 (STAT5CA).

In vivo studies reveal that a combination of Suprastat and anti-PD1 immunotherapy enhances antitumor immune response mediated by a decrease of protumoral M2 macrophages and increased infiltration of antitumor CD8+ effector and memory T-cells.

We first demonstrated in primary human CD8+ T cells that IL-7-induced downregulation of mCD127 expression is dependent on JAK and PI3K signaling, whereas IL-7-induced sCD127 release is also mediated by STAT5.

Lower methionine concentrations in CD8 T cells lead to reduced levels of dimethylated H3K79, an active epigenetic mark, which in turn results in reduced STAT5 expression and activity.

Mutations in STAT3 and IL21R, but not STAT1 led to a decrease in multiple memory CD8(+) T-cell subsets in vivo, indicating that STAT3 signaling, possibly downstream of IL-21R, regulates the memory cell pool.

In this study, we report for the first time, by using murine vaccination models, that signal-transducing adaptor protein-2 (STAP2) maintains the cytotoxicity of long-lived memory CD8+ T cells by controlling a STAT3/suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 (SOCS3) cascade.

Multivariate analysis incorporating tumor staging, treatment status, and smoking history revealed that treatment status had the most significant impact on HPV-specific CD8+ and CD4+ T cell immunity.

Viral pathogenesis studies in WT and STAT1 R274W mixed bone marrow chimeric mice revealed that the presence of WT leukocytes was sufficient to limit infection and that antigen-specific STAT1 R274W CD8+ T cell responses were impaired even in the presence of WT leukocytes.

CIITA knockdown and STAT1 inhibition experiments revealed that HLA-DRB1 expression in lupus CD8+ T cells is dependent on CIITA and STAT1 signalling.

Transfer of CD8(+) but not CD4(+) T cells, purified from infected WT mice, into STAT6(-/-) mice successfully prevented formation of cysts in the brain.

In this study, we demonstrate that IFN-alphabeta, although antiproliferative in wild-type CD4(+) or CD8(+) T cells act as strong mitogens on their STAT1(-/-) counterparts.

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 13
'CD8',bind,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT';'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

CD8+ cells were decreased only with the Cyto-Stat reagents.

Infection of STAT1 R274W mice was associated with paradoxically decreased expression of IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs) and gamma interferon (IFN-γ) , likely secondary to defective CD4+ and CD8+ T cell responses, including diminished numbers of antigen-specific CD8+ T cells.

In addition, STAT, forkhead box transcription factor (FoxP3) , and pZAP70 expression in CD4+ T cells was suppressed in DM, whereas STAT and pZAP70 expression in CD8+ T cells was induced in PM.

The first year after rATG, CD4+, and CD8+ T cells were affected in their IL-7-dependent phosphorylation of STAT5 (pSTAT5) which was most outspoken in the CD8+ memory population.

Distinct from its action on CD4+ T cells, IL35 signaling in gp130+CD8+ T cells activated the transcription factor STAT3, which antagonized intratumoral infiltration and effector function of CD8+ T cells via suppression of CXCR3, CCR5, and IFNγ expression.

Using flow cytometry and real-time PCR, we show that STAT4(-/-) mice with DIO produce significantly reduced numbers of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines in adipocytes, have reduced numbers of CD8(+) cells, and display increased alternative (M2) macrophage polarization.

Using flow cytometry and real-time PCR, we show that STAT4(-/-) mice with DIO produce significantly reduced numbers of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines in adipocytes have reduced numbers of CD8(+) cells, and display increased alternative (M2) macrophage polarization.

Multiplex arrays showed that IL-17A was increased in advanced-stage patient sera, which markedly downregulated CXCR3 expression via activating STAT3 signaling and reduced CD8+ T cell migration.

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 14
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

B6 preferentially inhibited the phosphorylation of STAT3 by interacting with and inactivating JAK2, the main upstream kinase of STAT3.

Unmethylated STAT1 is less active because it can be bound and inactivated by its inhibitor, protein inhibitor of activated STAT1 (PIAS1).

The miR-124a directly targeted SOS Ras/Rac guanine nucleotide exchange factor 1 (SOS1) , IQ motif-containing GTPase-activating protein 1 (IQGAP1) , signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) , and cyclin D2 (CCND2) , thereby inactivating epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) downstream signaling pathways including mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (MEK/ERK) , phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-protein kinase B (PI3K/AKT) and Janus kinase (JAK)/STAT3.

In malignant cells that harbor constitutively activated Stat3, CPA-1, CPA-7, and platinum (IV) tetrachloride inhibit cell growth and induce apoptosis in a manner that reflects the attenuation of persistent Stat3 activity.

As evidence for the functional importance of peptide-directed inhibition of Stat3, PY,LKTK-mts (mts, membrane translocating sequence) selectively inhibits constitutive and ligand-induced Stat3 activation in vivo.

We previously identified a Stat3 SH2 domain-binding phosphopeptide, PY,LKTK, and its tripeptide derivatives, PY,L and AY,L (where Y, represents phosphotyrosine) , which inhibit Stat3 biochemical activity and biological function.

The signal transducer and activator of transcription-3 (STAT3) phosphorylation inhibitor, AG490 inhibited colony-forming efficiency and dome formation, whereas lipopolysaccharide, an activator of STAT3, increased colony-forming efficiency in a dose-dependent manner.

Loss of DNA methylation tended to occur at STAT3 consensus elements, and we show that methylation of one of these elements in the il17a promoter directly inhibits STAT3 binding and transcriptional activity.

Protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 (PIAS) inhibits the activity of the transcription factor STAT3, which is a pivotal transcription factor for Th17 differentiation.

In addition, all of the phosphorylated STAT3 positive cells were also positive for phosphorylated STAT1, both of which could be inhibited by a JAK2/STAT inhibitor, AG490.

New insights from animal models of uveitis, multiple sclerosis and inflammatory bowel diseases are discussed as exemplars of critical roles that STAT3 pathways play in inflammatory diseases and on how inhibiting STAT3 can be exploited to mitigate pathogenic autoimmunity.

In addition, treatment of CD4+ T cells from GBS patients with IL-35 upregulated IL-35, STAT5 and STAT6 protein and T-bet, GATA3, Foxp3, IFN-γ, IL-4, IL-17A and TGF-β1 mRNA while inhibited levels of STAT3 and STAT4 protein and RORγt and IL-17A mRNA.

STAT3 inhibition in normal TH9 cultures diminished early IL-21 induction and late IL-9 production, whereas exogenous IL-21 enhanced TH9 differentiation, even with STAT3 inhibition, by restoring suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 expression and thus inhibiting excessive phosphorylated signal transducer and activator of transcription (p-STAT) 1 activation.

Given the importance of the JAK/STAT pathway in activating microglia and inducing cytokine/chemokine expression, we investigated the therapeutic potential of inhibiting the JAK/STAT pathway using the JAK1/2 inhibitor, AZD1480.

In vitro, α-SYN exposure activated the JAK/STAT pathway in microglia and macrophages, and treatment with AZD1480 inhibited α-SYN-induced major histocompatibility complex Class II and inflammatory gene expression in microglia and macrophages by reducing STAT1 and STAT3 activation.

Importantly, inhibition of the JAK/STAT pathway prevented the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in vivo These results indicate that inhibiting the JAK/STAT pathway can prevent neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration by suppressing activation of innate and adaptive immune responses to α-SYN.

STAT1/2 nuclear accumulation was inhibited by rotavirus even in the presence of the nuclear export inhibitor Leptomycin B, demonstrating that enhanced nuclear export is not involved in STAT1/2 cytoplasmic retention.

STAT3-specific decoy oligonucleotides (STAT3-decoy ODN) that contain this consensus sequence inhibit the transcriptional activity of STAT3, leading to cell death.

In vitro study, IFN-γ treatment up-regulated Ido mRNA expression with STAT1 activation in OV2944-HM-1 cells, whereas AG490 treatment significantly inhibited this effect with the suppression of STAT1 phosphorylation.

Tyr phosphorylation of Erk and Ser phosphorylation of STAT-3 were inhibited by PD98059, while Tyr phosphorylation of STAT-3 was not inhibited by PD98059.

We provide evidence that the JAK/STAT signaling pathway is an important regulator of vascular SDF-1 levels and that p21Cip1 inhibits STAT3 binding to the STAT-binding site within the murine SDF-1 promoter.

Constitutive expression of UL41 inhibits the expression of STAT1, and treatment with drugs that inhibit the protein-degrading pathway did not restore STAT1 expression.

Mechanistically, WNV and ZIKV showed differential inhibition of Jak kinases upstream of STAT5, suggesting divergent countermeasures to inhibit STAT5 activation.

Here, using deep RNA-sequencing of neurons exposed to BDNF in the presence and absence of well characterized JAK/STAT inhibitors, and without non-neuronal cells, we determine the BDNF transcriptome that is specifically regulated by agents that inhibit JAK/STAT signaling.

Progranulin physically interacts with STAT3 in CRC cells, and its knockdown with a specific antisense oligonucleotide (ASO) inhibits STAT3 activation and restrains the expression of STAT3-related oncogenic proteins, thus causing cell cycle arrest and apoptosis.

Specifically, P protein interacted with STAT1 and subsequently inhibited STAT1 phosphorylation, whereas N protein neither interacted with STAT1 nor inhibited STAT1 phosphorylation as well as dimerization, suggesting that the N and P protein antagonistic effects were different.

Instead, cTAZ negatively regulates JAK-STAT signaling by inhibiting STAT1/2 nuclear localization and ISG expression, and its expression is induced by type I IFN Thus, cTAZ functions as a modulator of JAK-STAT signaling and may play a role in fine-tuning cellular antiviral response.

SOCS1 protein, the negative regulatory protein of the Janus kinase (JAK)/signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT) signaling pathway, may inhibit signaling of JAK-STAT pathway by several cytokines and has tumor suppressor activity.

Furthermore, we demonstrated that the JAK-STAT signaling pathway is activated in aged TSPCs, and AQP1 overexpression inhibited the JAK-STAT signaling pathway activation which indicated that AQP1 attenuates senescence and age-related dysfunction of TSPCs through the repression of JAK-STAT signaling pathway.

At hepatocyte level, TNFα induction also triggered rapid phosphorylation of IκBα, MEK1/2, ERK1/2, MKK3/6, P38MAPK, Akt, JAK2, and STAT135, and TNFα-induced SOCS1, SOCS3, and CISH mRNA expression could be negated by inhibiting the IKK/NFκB, MAPK, PI3K/Akt, and JAK/STAT cascades.

The molecular analysis revealed that Cin impaired IL-6-induced activation of Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) , signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) , and STAT3 signaling pathway by inhibiting the phosphorylation of JAK2, STAT1, and STAT3, without affecting NF-κB pathway.

Activation of the Janus kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK/STAT) pathway by IFN-γ was significantly suppressed by salinomycin, via inhibiting the Jak1, Jak2, and STAT1/3 phosphorylation.

Pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines act through a common JAK-STAT signaling pathway, which can be inhibited by JAK-STAT inhibitors.

Furthermore, the phosphorylation level of CqSTAT was significantly inhibited by gene silencing of CqDome in Hpt cells, indicating that CqDome participated in signal transduction of JAK/STAT pathway in red claw crayfish.

Our results also indicate that the coexpression of the dominant negative, DNA binding mutant of STAT3 (STAT3DB) inhibits the foci formation as well as anchorage-independent growth of Galpha(12) QL-transfectants, thereby establishing the critical role of STAT3 in Galpha(12) QL-mediated neoplastic cell growth.

JAKs phosphorylate signal transducers and activators of transcription (STATs) simultaneously with other phosphorylations required for activation, and there are several cellular mechanisms in place to inhibit JAK/STAT signaling.

STAT3 was specifically inhibited by transfecting either a dominant-negative (DN) STAT3 plasmid or antisense STAT3 oligonucleotides into the cells.

Blocking the JAK-STAT pathway with a specific JAK-STAT pathway inhibitor, AG490 inhibited NRG-1-induced JAK and STAT phosphorylation and cell proliferation.

Phosphorylation and DNA-binding activity of STAT3 were also inhibited by the p38 MAPK inhibitor SB203580 and the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor LY294002, suggesting that multiple signaling pathways involved in STAT activation by hypoxia.

Being a transcription factor, AGE also increased the DNA-binding activities of STAT1 and STAT3 AG-490 (a specific JAK2 inhibitor) (5 microM) inhibited tyrosine phosphorylation of JAK2 and the DNA-binding activities of STAT1 and STAT3.

In addition, pretreatment of the cells with STAT1 siRNA inhibited the phosphorylation of STAT1, iNOS expression, and nitrite production, and enhanced the release of sPLA₂-IIA.

But decreased phosphorylation of JAK1, STAT3, STAT5 and downregulated Bcl-xL, Cyclin D1 and c-Myc indicated that ECPIRM inhibited the activation of JAK/STAT signaling.

Muscle extract significantly activated STAT3 phosphorylation but inhibited STAT1 phosphorylation.

Although inhibitors of ERK1/2 and JNK (PD98059 and SP600125) had no effect on phosphorylation status of STAT3, inhibitors of p38 MAPK (SB203580 and SB202190) partially inhibited dephosphorylation of STAT3 at Tyr-705.

Furthermore, 3 FC induced the expression of the protein inhibitors of activated STAT3 (PIAS3) , and gene silencing of the PIAS3 by small interfering RNA abolished the ability of 3 FC to inhibit STAT3 activation, suggesting a critical role for PIAS3 in the action of 3 FC.

We also found that the Stat3 inhibitor Stattic suppresses the acquisition of thermotolerance by inhibiting the mild heat shock-induced Stat3 phosphorylation and Hsp105 expression.

It exhibited potent effects on the cellular JAK-STAT pathway inhibiting tyrosine phosphorylation in JAK2V617F and downstream STAT3/5 transcription factors.

We showed that the MetYPCP domain interfered with the Janus kinase (JAK)/signal transducer and activator of the transcription protein (STAT) signalling pathway by inhibiting STAT1 nuclear translocation and phosphorylation after IFN-I treatment.

Curcumin suppressed the phosphorylation levels of JAK1, STAT1, and STAT3, while curcumin did not inhibit the activation of JAK/STAT pathway when miR-99a was knocked down.

Interestingly, further transcriptomic analysis revealed that 5 of the 8 modulated genes associated with the JAK-STAT pathway were down-regulated, while 2 inhibiting genes were up-regulated after BaP exposure for 2 days whereas LPS challenge resulted in only less than half modulated, suggesting the possibility of down-regulation caused by BaP exposure through JAK-STAT pathway.

In conclusion, PIAS negatively regulates JAK/STAT signaling by inhibiting the phosphorylation and translocation of STAT through the interaction between PIAS and STAT, which leads to the reduction of AMP expression in shrimp.

The increased viral load and suppressed transcript levels of JAK/STAT pathway components indicate that WSV181 can promote viral proliferation by inhibiting the JAK/STAT pathway.

In line with these changes, maternal exposure to FO promoted the expression of long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) in p53 and apoptosis signaling pathways and inhibited that in NF-κB and Jak-STAT signaling pathways, while FSO promoted the expression of lncRNA in p53 signaling pathways and inhibited that in NF-κB, Jak-STAT and MAPK signaling pathways.

We confirmed that 9-cis-RA significantly decreased phosphorylation of JAK1, STAT3, and STAT5 and downregulated Bcl-xL and cyclin D1, indicating that 9-cis-RA inhibited the activation of JAK/STAT signaling.

In addition, DHHL suppressed IL-4-induced STAT-6 and JAK-1 tyrosine phosphorylation, suggesting that this compound inhibited M2 polarization by suppressing the JAK-STAT signaling pathway.

Here, we found that EGCG enhanced IFN-γ-induced signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) activation in primary CD4(+) T cells from C57BL/6 mice and in a human leukemic CD4(+) T-cell line of Hut 78 cells, while it inhibited the classical pathway of IFN-γ signaling including activating phosphorylations of Janus kinase (JAK) 1 , JAK2 and STAT3, forming interferon-γ activated sequence (GAS)-binding STAT1 homodimers, and producing pro-inflammatory chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 9 (CXCL9).

Since STAT5 is directly activated by Janus kinases, therapeutic approaches designed to inhibit STAT3 activation or to recruit STAT3 phosphatases may be useful in altering the balance of activated STAT3 and STAT5 in favor a profile that would be beneficial in pathologies involving IL-6.

We further demonstrate by mutagenesis and co-immunoprecipitations that the N-domain of Stat5a/b is required for binding to PIAS3, and that PIAS3 inhibits transcriptional activity of Stat5a/b in breast cancer cells but not in prostate cancer cells.

Here, we show that TRIM8 interacts with protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 (PIAS3) , which inhibits IL-6-dependent activation of STAT3.

Furthermore, silencing STAT3 inhibited basal, LPS and MDP stimulated NFKB protein expression and overexpression of protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 (Pias3) markedly decreased basal NFKB activity.

STAT3 has emerged as a potential target in resistant AML, but inhibiting STAT3 function has proven challenging.

7 c inhibited STAT3 nuclear translocation in mouse embryonic fibroblast while 7 b and 7 c inhibited STAT3 DNA-binding activity in the A375\240\cell line.

Despite this, a multitude of small-molecule STAT inhibitors have been proposed, primarily focusing on inhibiting STAT3 protein to generate novel cancer therapies.

Consequently, since STAT5 contributes to tumour aggressiveness and cancer progression inhibiting STAT5 constitutive activation in cancers that rely on its signalling makes for a promising targeted treatment option.

Protein inhibitor of activated STAT1 (PIAS1) , a transcriptional regulator that possesses small ubiquitin-related modifier (SUMO) E3 ligase activity inhibits immune responses by selectively blocking the binding of NF-kappaB and STAT1 to gene promoters.

LXR ligands inhibit neither STAT1 phosphorylation nor STAT1 translocation to the nucleus but, rather inhibit STAT1 binding to promoters and the expression of IRF1, TNFalpha, and IL-6, downstream effectors of STAT1 action.

A mutant PIAS1 lacking the Stat1-interacting domain failed to inhibit Stat1-mediated gene activation.

PIAS1, but not other PIAS proteins, blocked the DNA binding activity of Stat1 and inhibited Stat1-mediated gene activation in response to interferon.

At low doses, givinostat downregulated the expression of genes belonging to the JAK/STAT pathway and inhibited STAT5 phosphorylation.

The cytoplasmic region of nectin-4 directly interacted with suppressor of cytokine signaling 1 (SOCS1) , but not SOCS3, JAK2, or STAT5a, and inhibited the interaction of SOCS1 with JAK2, eventually resulting in the increased phosphorylation of STAT5a.

Pre-incubation of the STAT3, p38, or NF-κB inhibitors significantly inhibited HMGB1-induced IL-1β or TNF-α production in islets, but the effect of HMGB1 or H/R-induced islet injury was not counteracted by a separate treatment of the STAT3 inhibitor, p38 inhibitor, or NF-κB inhibitors.

Given the importance of the STAT3 transcription factor in activating macrophages and neutrophils and augmenting inflammation, we investigated the therapeutic potential of inhibiting STAT3 activity using the small-molecule STAT3 inhibitor, LLL12.

We found that STAT3 phosphorylation of neutrophils in Aspergillus fumigatus-infected corne as was inhibited by the JAK/STAT inhibitor Ruxolitinib, resulting in impaired fungal killing and decreased matrix metalloproteinase 9 activity.

In this study, we found a new lead compound of a small molecule JAK-STAT inhibitor, 2-[ (3-Carbamoyl-2-thienyl) amino]-2-oxoethyl (2 , 6-dichlorophenyl) acetate, which inhibits STAT3 as efficiently as other STATs.

The in vitro experiments showed that TLR4 deficiency promoted Th1 cell differentiation via enhancing STAT1 pathway and inhibited Th17 cell differentiation via suppressing STAT3 pathway.

STAT1 can inhibit cell growth and promote apoptosis while STAT3 inhibits apoptosis.

PL\240\inhibited Stat3 nuclear translocation inhibited ligand-induced and constitutive Stat3 phosphorylation, and modulated expression of multiple Stat3-regulated genes.

The STAT3 pathway was activated using meteorin and inhibited using STAT3 inhibitor VII in the glial progenitor cell line BO-1 and in primary rat OPCs in vitro.

Using the non-transformed IL-3-dependent B cell line Ba/F3 and its oncogenic derivative Ba/F3-1,6 expressing constitutively activated STAT5, we show that α-Br-TMC targets the JAK/STAT pathway at multiple levels inhibiting both JAK2 and STAT5 phosphorylation.

Interestingly, elimination of STAT1 in Stat1 null mice did not inhibit astrocyte differentiation and deletion of Stat1 failed to aggravate the glial defects in Stat3 cKO mice.

The same in silico and in vitro multi-STAT inhibiting capacity was shown for STATTIC and STX-0119.

Moreover, C01L_F03, STATTIC and STX-0119 were also able to affect genome-wide interactions between IFNγ and TLR4 by commonly inhibiting pro-inflammatory and pro-atherogenic gene expression directed by cooperative involvement of STATs with IRFs and/or NF-κB.

We further demonstrated that EN enhanced STAT1 phosphorylation but attenuated STAT1 acetylation, eventually inhibiting the interaction between the NF-κB p65 subunit and acetylated STAT1.

Importantly, STAT3 activity was inhibited by Cucu-B as confirmed by decreased phosphorylation of STAT3 without changing total STAT3 expression.

Grain-moxibustion has remarkable effect on Lewis lung cancer, by improving survival state, reducing death rate, and controlling growth rate of tumor, which might be associated with its function of inhibiting the activation of IL-6 and STAT 3 in inflammatory microenvironment.

We also found that the nucleus PLAC2 bind with STAT1 and interact with RPL36 promoters but the cytoplasmic lncRNA PLAC2 inhibited STAT1 nuclear transfer, thereby decreasing RP36 expression, inhibiting cell proliferation and inducing cell cycle arrest.

JAK-STAT inhibitor Ruxolitinib selectively inhibits STAT1 and STAT3 activation and increases CTL infiltration to induce a Tc1/Th1 immune response in the tumor microenvironment in an orthotopic pancreatic cancer mouse model.

In addition, PTPN2 gene transfer significantly suppressed renal activation of signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT) , STAT-dependent pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic genes expression, and influx of lymphocytes in DN, indicating anti-inflammatory effects of PTPN2 by inhibiting the activation of STAT signalling pathway in vivo.

Import-defective STAT1 and STAT2 proteins were readily phosphorylated and dimerized, but they functioned as dominant negative molecules inhibiting the nuclear import of heterologous STAT protein.

In this study, we demonstrate that VACV infection is capable of inhibiting the phosphorylation of Stat1 and Stat2 after stimulation of fibroblasts or bone marrow-derived macrophages with either type I or type II IFNs, but did not inhibit the activation of Stat3 or Stat5 in either cell type.

Nuclear translocation of Stat1alpha upon IFN-gamma stimulation was significantly inhibited in influenza A virus-infected cells and this was associated with a decrease in Tyr701 and Ser727 phosphorylation of Stat1alpha.

We previously reported that the small-molecule Stattic, originally developed as a STAT3-specific inhibitor, also inhibits STAT1 and STAT2 phosphorylation in DC exposed to cytokines or LPS.

Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) induce both suppressors of cytokine signaling 3 (SOCS3) and retinoic acid receptor-related orphan nuclear receptor γ (RORγt) to initiate Th17 cell differentiation which is inhibited by SOCS3, a negative feedback regulator of STAT3.

Beneficial Treg expanding property of SR11302 was associated with the induction of Foxp3 and STAT5 transcription factor, where the inhibiting property of Th17 was achieved by suppressing the phosphorylated form of STAT3 and enhancing SOCS3.

It induced phosphorylation of STAT6 65 kD but inhibited phosphorylation of STAT6 110 kD induced by IL-4 in a B-cell line that expressed the type I receptor.

To block this process, we are developing cell-permeable, phosphatase-stable phosphopeptide mimics, targeted to the SH2 domain of Stat3, that inhibit the phosphorylation of Tyr705 of Stat3 in cultured tumor cells (Mandal et al.

The expressions of Janus family kinase (JAK) 1 and signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) 3 as well as their phosphorylation were inhibited in gingival epithelia of diabetic periodontitis mice, whereas the expression and phosphorylation of STAT1 remained unchanged.

Western blot analysis revealed that the tocilizumab enhanced the interferon-induced phosphorylation of STAT1 and inhibited SOCS3 expression and the phosphorylation of both STAT3 and ERK.

Lentiviral delivery of SOCS3, an inhibitor of STAT3 signaling, into primary neurons and SH-SY5Y cells inhibits OSM and IL-6/R-induced phosphorylation of STAT3, and also reverses the protective effect of OSM and IL-6/R on NMDA and glutamate-induced neurotoxicity in primary cortical neurons.

SB1518 shows potent effects on cellular JAK/STAT pathways inhibiting tyrosine phosphorylation on JAK2 (Y221) and downstream STATs.

The inhibitions of STAT1 and STAT 3 by arctigenin prevented their translocation to the nucleus and consequently inhibited expression of iNOS, thereby suppressing the expression of inflammation-associated genes, such as IL-1β, IL-6 and MCP-1, whose promoters contain STAT-binding elements.

As well as RSV inhibiting STAT protein levels through degradation mechanisms in epithelial cells, these findings demonstrate that RSV also can specifically inhibit the type I interferon response in BMDCs through regulation of STAT1 and STAT2 phosphorylation and nuclear translocation.

At the molecular level, Stattic inhibited RANKL-induced activation of STAT3 and NF-κB pathways, without significantly affecting MAPK signaling.

Stattic, a chemical inhibitor of Stat3 phosphorylation, could effectively inhibit Stat3 activation in ES cells.

However, inflammasome agonists did not increase STAT3 phosphorylation, and another JAK inhibitor, ruxolitinib, did not inhibit cell death, although it strongly inhibited basal STAT3 phosphorylation.

Results: Our data indicated that Tet-inducible STAT3 shRNA and AZD9150 inhibited endogenous STAT3 and STAT3 target genes.

Overexpression of Wwox markedly inhibited proliferation and metastasis of BC cells by suppressing STAT3 activation, which is to interact with JAK2 to inhibit JAK2 and STAT3 phosphorylation.

Of note, pre-infection of DCs with live amastigotes resulted in multiple alterations in innate signaling pathways, including degradation of STAT2 decreased phosphorylation of STAT1, 2 , 3 and ERK1/2, and markedly reduced expression of interferon regulatory factor-1 (IRF-1) and IRF-8, some of which were partially reversed by pretreatment of parasites with proteasome or protease inhibitors.

Altogether, these results suggest that forced expression of SOCS3 in T cells is deleterious in APAP hepatotoxicity by increasing STAT1 activation while decreasing STAT3 activation in hepatocytes, possibly through elevated IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha.

Second, the development of CD4(+) CD25(+) immunoregulatory T cells was impaired in Stat5a(-/-) mice, as indicated by a significant decrease in the number of CD4(+) CD25(+) T cells in Stat5a(-/-) mice.

IL-6-induced phosphorylation of STAT3 was decreased in CD4(+) T cells from patients with high plasma IL-6 levels and constitutive STAT3 phosphorylation.

Patients with STAT5b deficiency have decreased numbers of regulatory CD4(+) CD25(high) T cell (Treg) despite their STAT5a levels being normal.

We found that unconjugated lithocholic acid (LCA) impedes Th1 activation as measured by i) decreased production of the Th1 cytokines IFNγ and TNFαα, ii) decreased expression of the Th1 genes T-box protein expressed in T cells (T-bet) , Stat-1 and Stat4, and iii) decreased STAT1α/β phosphorylation.

Further analysis revealed reduced phospho-SHP2 (associated with CD31 activation) and phospho-signal transducer and activator of transcription-5 (STAT-5) (associated with FoxP3 transcription) levels in CD31+ Tr cells of CHD patients, suggesting that decreased FoxP3 expression in CD31+ Tr cells might be because of attenuated SHP2 and STAT-5 activation.

Mutations in STAT3 and IL21R, but not STAT1, led to a decrease in multiple memory CD8(+) T-cell subsets in vivo, indicating that STAT3 signaling, possibly downstream of IL-21R, regulates the memory cell pool.

Interestingly we found increase in STAT-3 and decrease in STAT-5 expression during PbA infection.

These adaptations are in-part mediated via signal transducer and activator of transcription-3 (STAT-3) , as demonstrated by decreased expression of proinflammatory cytokines and glycolytic genes in ECM DC in response to STAT-3 inhibition.

Furthermore, Dex blocked JAK/STAT signaling pathway by decreasing p-JAK and p-STAT in CCI rats.

In addition, we evaluated the expression of the exhaustion-associated molecules programmed death-1, cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated protein-4, and lymphocyte activation gene-3 in CTLs after adding the JAK-STAT inhibitor The results showed that the expression of exhaustion-associated molecules on the CTL surface decreased after blocking the JAK-STAT pathway.

Mechanistically, 27 HC reduced STAT3 homodimerization, nuclear translocation, and decreased STAT3 DNA occupancy at target gene promoters.

In support of the specificity of AUH-6-96 for inhibition of JAK/STAT signaling, treatment with AUH-6-96 decreased cancer cell survival by inducing programmed cell death by down-regulating the expression of STAT3 downstream target antiapoptotic genes, such as Bcl-xL.

We report age-related changes in the JAK-STAT signalling pathway that results in decreased tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT5.

Mutation of the STAT binding site of the IL-9 receptor (tyr116phe) results in an important decrease in STAT activation and inhibition of proliferation in the presence of IL-9.

The reduced STAT4 phosphorylation was due to a progressive decrease in the amount of STAT4 protein along with the passages in IL-2-containing medium.

Furthermore, physalin A abrogated the nuclear translocation and transcriptional activity of STAT3, thereby decreasing the expression levels of STAT3, its target genes, such as Bcl-2 and XIAP.

Conversely, STAT3 silencing and inhibition decreased PD-L1 expression in STAT3 mutant NKTL cell lines.

In wild-type STAT3 cells, increasing concentrations of PIAS3 resulted in a proportional decrease in STAT3 phosphorylation.

Meanwhile, PIAS1WT increased STAT1 sumoylation decreased STAT1 DNA binding and decreased STAT1 phosphorylation at Tyr-701 associated with spatial learning facilitation.

Meanwhile, PIAS1WT increased STAT1 sumoylation, decreased STAT1 DNA binding and decreased STAT1 phosphorylation at Tyr-701 associated with spatial learning facilitation.

This effect appears to be mediated by an increased binding of PIAS1 to STAT1 in the absence of STAT1 arginine methylation and a concomitant decrease in the association of STAT1 with TcPTP.

Mouse embryonic fibroblasts null for p190B Rho GTPase-activating protein exhibit increased RhoA protein content and activation, similar to what is observed in CF models, and also exhibit CF-like alterations in STAT1 regulation, including decreased STAT1 activation, increased PIAS1 protein expression, and reduced NOS2 induction, implicating RhoA-mediated signaling in CF-related STAT1 alterations.

Up-regulation of miR-155 expression by IFN-γ in bile duct cells led to the activation of signal transducers and activators of transcription 1 (Stat1) and inflammatory cytokines through the Janus kinase (Jak)/Stat pathway, whereas targeted inhibition of miR-155 expression by anti-miRNA oligonucleotides significantly decreased the mRNA or protein expression levels of these inflammatory cytokines and Stat1.

In vivo, STAT5/CD36 double knockout mice displayed hepatic TG was decreased compared to STAT5KO mice and it was also reduced by treatment with PPARγ antagonists, GW9662, and/or pre-miR-20b.

The loss of JAK1 uncouples interleukin-6-class ligands from their downstream effector, STAT3, which leads to the decreased expression of STAT3 target genes that are associated with the acute-phase response, inflammation, and wound healing.

Emodin increased phosphorylation of STAT1 decreased phosphorylation of STAT3 and increased endogenous gene expression stimulated by IFN-α.

CLCF-1 increased phosphorylation of STAT3 in multiple cell types, activated podocytes leading to formation of lamellipodia and decrease in basal stress fibers, increased glomerular albumin permeability, and increased STAT3 phosphorylation of peripheral blood cells and renal cortex.

Although wild-type and Mac-Rap(KO) macrophages showed similar STAT3 phosphorylation on Tyr705, Mac-Rap(KO) macrophages showed decreased STAT3Ser727 phosphorylation in response to minimally modified low-density lipoprotein treatment and decreased Ccl2 promoter binding of STAT3.

The mechanism implies JAK/STAT and RhoA/Rho-kinase signaling pathway, because we found a decreasing in STAT3 phosphorylation status and down regulation of RhoA/Rho-kinase protein expression.

JAK1 and STAT1, two important neuregulin proteins, were predicted to be the target genes of micro-125b, and overexpression of micro-125b induced the decrease of phosphorylated JAK1 and STAT1.

Epac1 overexpression inhibited the Jak-STAT pathway, as indicated by decreased phosphorylation of STAT3 and increased SOCS3 expression, with subsequent inhibition of iNOS expression.

In the organ culture studies, upon treatment with IL-6, quantitative RT-PCR revealed that CCSP mRNA increased with increasing Stat3 phosphorylation, while cucurbitacin I decreased Hes1, CCSP, Foxj1 and CGRP mRNAs with decreasing Stat3 phosphorylation.

These effects were associated with the upregulation of genes related to M1 phenotype, as IL-12 and STAT-1, and to the decrease of M2 genes, as IL-10 and STAT-6, in adherent fraction of lung immune infiltrate, as revealed by real-time PCR analysis.

ACE C-domain overexpression in macrophages drove them toward a pronounced M1 phenotype upon tumor stimulation, with increased activation of NF-κB and signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) and decreased STAT3 and STAT6 activation.

This defect in transcription occurred despite normal activation of STAT1 in infected macrophages: there was no decrease in STAT1 tyrosine or serine phosphorylation, nuclear translocation, or binding of a minimal IFN-gamma response sequence.

shRNA-mediated knockdown of JAK1 or STAT3 in ovarian cancer cells led to reduced tumor growth decreased peritoneal dissemination, and diminished ascites production, suggesting a critical role of STAT3 in ovarian cancer progression.

Tumors from AZD1480-treated mice showed inhibition of activated STAT3 as well as decreased expression of STAT3 downstream targets.

Moreover, STAT3-targeting siRNA (siSTAT3) decreased MCM-induced STAT3 activation and NPC astrogliogenesis.

Furthermore, inhibition of STAT3 significantly increased neuroblastoma cell sensitivity to cisplatin and decreased tumor growth and increased the survival of tumor-bearing mice in vivoConclusions: Our study supports the development of strategies targeting STAT3 inhibition in combination with conventional chemotherapy for patients with high-risk neuroblastoma.

Furthermore, N domains appear to exert private STAT functions, since interchanging the N domains between Stat1 and Stat4 prevented receptor-mediated tyrosine phosphorylation in one case and interrupted STAT-specific gene activation in another.

In related studies, we show that the negative effect of GATA-3 on Th1 differentiation in T-bet-/- cells arises from its ability to suppress STAT4 levels, because if this is prevented by a STAT4-expressing retrovirus, normal Th1 differentiation is observed.

STAT6-deficient CD4(+) betabeta T cells produced IL-4 and intraperitoneal injection of anti-IL-4 monoclonal antibody in the nondiseased TCRalpha(-/-) and STAT6 double-deficient mice prevented the colitis formation, thus indicating that the cells differentiated into the Th2 phenotype have the ability to mediate the development of the colitis in the absence of STAT6.

ARHI associates directly with STAT3, also forms complex with importinβ, and prevents formation of RanGTPase-importinβ complex, which is essential for transporting STAT3 into the nucleus.

STAT3-decoy ODN was shown to bind activated STAT3 within the cytoplasm, and to prevent its translocation to the nucleus, as well as that of STAT3-associated NF-κB, but it did not prevent the nuclear transfer of STAT3 with mutations in its DNA-binding domain.

Furthermore, OSM treatment elicited phosphorylation of STAT1 and STAT3, and pretreatment with WHI-P131 specifically prevented the OSM-induced phosphorylation of STAT1, without affecting the OSM-induced phosphorylation of ERK and STAT3.

Parthenolide, a signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT1 and STAT3) phosphorylation inhibitor, reduced OSM-induced ADAMTS-4 and MMP-13 gene expression and prevented STAT1/3 DNA binding activity.

OSM induced phosphorylation of STAT1, and treatment of adipocytes with JAK3 inhibitor WHI-P131 or MEK inhibitor U0126, but not with JAK2 inhibitor AG490 prevented the activation of STAT1.

Gene silencing of either STAT3 or MT1-MMP prevented ConA-induced phosphorylation of STAT3, and reversed ConA effects on CSF-2 and CSF-3.

Jak/Stat blockade prevented the increase in cFos-expressing neurons after chronic stimulation, confirming an important role for Jak/Stat signaling in activity-dependent CST synapse formation.

To target constitutive STAT5 signalling in cancers, there are several STAT5 inhibitors that can prevent STAT5 phosphorylation, dimerisation, or its transcriptional activity.

In addition, whereas the NH(2)-terminal region of PIAS1 does not interact with Stat1, it serves as a modulatory domain by preventing the interaction of the COOH-terminal domain of PIAS1 with the Stat1 monomer.

Extending our analysis to STAT1 and STAT3, we found that MCMV infection neither destabilizes STAT1 protein nor prevents STAT1 tyrosine Y701 phosphorylation, nuclear translocation, or the capability to bind γ-activated sequence DNA-enhancer elements.

A single point mutation of STAT1 that prevents phosphorylation is sufficient to abolish chromatin remodelling, thus establishing a direct link between the JAK/STAT signalling pathway and human chromatin architecture.

One potential mechanism for such leptin resistance is an increased hypothalamic expression of Suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 (Socs3) , a feedback inhibitor of the Jak-Stat pathway that prevents Stat3 activation.

These data indicate that functional Stat5 isoform expression is regulated by T-cell activation status and that dysregulated expression of Stat5(t) in malignant T cells in SzS can suppress Stat5-dependent gene expression.

Moreover, we discuss how anti-tumorigenic STATs, including STAT1 and STAT2, may be leveraged to suppress the pro-tumorigenic functions of STAT3/STAT5 signaling.

To further explore whether JAK/STAT signaling pathway participated in specific immune responses mediated by CTP-HBcAg18-27-Tapasin, we suppressed the JAK/STAT pathway with pharmacological inhibitor (AG490) in vivo.

In addition, STAT, forkhead box transcription factor (FoxP3) , and pZAP70 expression in CD4+ T cells was suppressed in DM, whereas STAT and pZAP70 expression in CD8+ T cells was induced in PM.

The mechanism study showed that HHX-5 significantly inhibited STAT1 signaling pathway in macrophages and suppressed STAT1, STAT4, STAT5, and STAT6 signaling pathways in naive CD4+ T cells.

The phosphorylated activation of STAT5 was suppressed significantly in groups I, II, and III, whereas the phosphorylated activation of STAT3 was suppressed only in group I.

Surprisingly, p-STAT1 was positively correlated with STAT3 levels while STAT5b suppressed the activation of both STAT1 and STAT3.

Overexpression of Hipk can phenocopy the effects of overactive JAK/STAT mutations and lead to melanized tumors, and loss of Hipk can suppress the effects of hyperactive JAK/STAT.

High expression of miR-454 may be one of the causes of the downregulation of VGLL4 in TNBC, and VGLL4 acts as a tumor suppressor in TNBC by interacting with STAT3 and subsequently suppresses the STAT3 signaling axis, providing potential biomarkers and therapeutic approaches for this fatal disease.

MiR-21 might affect the JAK/STAT signal pathway by suppressing the expression of STAT3 and phosphorylation of STAT3.

We demonstrated that Pj-ME controls the STAT3 signaling pathway by suppressing STAT3 and JAK phosphorylation and also downregulates the gene expression of IL-6.

In contrast, blockade of STAT3 activation using inhibitors or knockdown systems can markedly suppress tumor progression, thus highlighting the significance of abrogating STAT3 signaling cascade in cancer therapy.

As to the molecular signaling cascade linking AMPK to STAT3, we disclosed that AMPK suppressed STAT3 not only by attenuating JAK signaling but also by activating nuclear factor erythroid-2-related factor-2 (Nrf2) , a redox-regulating transcription factor, which consequently increased the expression of small heterodimer protein (SHP) , thus repressing the transcriptional activity of STAT3.

Thus, pervanadate by itself activated PC-PLC, JAK, and STAT6, whereas sodium orthovanadate suppressed PC-PLC, JAK, and STAT6 activation by IL-4.

In this study, we show that inhibition of the Stat3 signaling pathway using the Janus Kinase-selective inhibitor, AG490, and a dominant negative Stat3 (Stat3beta) significantly suppresses the growth of ovarian and breast cancer cell lines harboring constitutively active Stat3.

This suggests that the spontaneously produced IFNgamma in the Stat6(null) cell lines suppresses STAT6 function and creates the Stat6(null) phenotype.

Finally, suppression of Jak1 by lentiviral delivery of Jak1 short hairpin RNA blocked PRL activation of ERK and signal transducer and activator of transcription (Stat) 3 and suppressed PRL activation of Jak2, Stat5a, Stat5b, and Akt, as well as tyrosine phosphorylation of PRLR.

Knocking down STAT3 with shRNA suppressed DV-induced STAT3, NF-κB and AP-1 activation.

In Western blotting analysis, we demonstrated that polyI:C and IAV infection induced STAT1 phosphorylation in normal human bronchial epithelial cells, whereas IL-17A suppressed polyI:C- or IAV-mediated STAT1 phosphorylation.

Inhibition of STAT3 by WP1066 or siSTAT3 significantly suppressed the sphere formation, but not CXCR4 expression, indicating that STAT3 is a downstream effector of CXCR4-mediated signaling.

Protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 (PIAS3) functions in vivo as a key molecule in suppressing the transcriptional activity of both microphthalmia transcription factor (MITF) and STAT3, two transcription factors that play a major role in the development, phenotypic expression, and survival of mast cells and melanocytes.

While STAT antagonism can suppress immune pathways, many viruses promote activation of specific STATs to support viral gene expression and/or produce cellular conditions conducive to infection.

STAT3 inhibition suppressed the differentiation of osteopontin-producing MerTK+galectin-3hi macrophages, however, STAT3 activation was insufficient at inducing Spp1 transcriptional activity.

A20 negatively modulated STAT1-dependent, but generally not STAT3-dependent gene transcription in myeloid cells by suppressing STAT1 but not STAT3 expression, both in unstimulated conditions and after interferon-γ or interleukin-6 stimulation.

We found that short hairpin (sh) RNA-mediated STAT3 inhibition suppressed tumor growth in a highly STAT3-activated lymphoma cell line, SCC-3 cells, and we investigated the effect of STAT3 inhibition on metabolic switching using 2-dimensional differential gel electrophoresis and capillary electrophoresis-time of flight-mass spectrometry.

In cisplatin-resistant cells with higher Jak2 and STAT3 expression, cisplatin and ruxolitinib combination dramatically suppressed the cell growth, down-regulated the expression of phosphorylated STAT3 and induced cleaved caspase-3 expression.

STAT-3/p-STAT-3 protein was suppressed after treatment with WP1066 (STAT-3:F = 15.336 , P = 0.004 , p-STAT-3: F = 52.837 , P = 0.0).

Wit also inhibits STAT3 nuclear translocation, DNA binding, promoter transcriptional activation, and it suppresses the expression levels of STAT3 target genes such as Bcl-xL and Mcl-1.

In contrast, STAT6 KO mice exhibited suppressed acute inflammation and attenuated fibrotic disease in response to MWCNT administration compared to STAT6 WT mice.

In an ex vivo study, piperine also inhibited the phosphorylation of STAT6 on the CD4+ T cells isolated from splenocytes of BALB/c mice, and piperine suppressed IL-4-induced CCL26 mRNA expression and STAT6 phosphorylation in human keratinocytes resulting in the inhibition of infiltration of CCR3+ cells into inflammatory lesions.

Intriguingly, STAT1Y701F suppresses the delayed expression of IFN-I-stimulated genes (ISG) observed in Stat1(-/-) cells, mediated by the STAT2/IRF9 complex.

ER stress inhibited STAT3-dependent suppression of gluconeogenic enzyme gene expression by suppressing hepatic Janus kinase (JAK) 2 and STAT3 phosphorylation.

Activated STAT3 then suppresses STAT1 activation via SOCS3 induction in SENP1-deficient macrophages.

Evidence was found that STAT3 is more resistant than STAT1 to intermolecular disulfide bond formation under oxidizing conditions and more likely to retain the monomeric form, suggesting that conformational differences explain the differential effect of GSH depletion on STAT1 and STAT3.

Viral pathogenesis studies in WT and STAT1 R274W mixed bone marrow chimeric mice revealed that the presence of WT leukocytes was sufficient to limit infection and that antigen-specific STAT1 R274W CD8+ T cell responses were impaired even in the presence of WT leukocytes.

Channel Capacity of JAK/STAT signalling is limited by cell-to-cell variability in STAT3 expression and is affected by the same mechanisms governing robustness.

In contrast, MetYPCP had no effect on STAT2 phosphorylation and a limited impact on the activation of the JAK/STAT pathway after IFN-II stimulation.

We previously reported a point mutation in the DNA-binding domain of the NOD STAT5B gene that limits DNA binding when compared to wild-type STAT5 mice.

Of the seven STAT isoforms, STAT1 is a key mediator of type I and type III IFN signaling, but limited information is available for the STAT genes in the water buffalo.

Specificity of the decoy was demonstrated by its ability to directly block Stat6 binding to a cis-element probe and transactivation, but not affect Stat6 tyrosine phosphorylation or expression of the IL-4 receptor chains.

In contrast, the mitogenic IFN-alphabeta response gained through the absence of STAT1 is only marginally affected when STAT5A/B expression is also abrogated, but is completely dependent on STAT3 activation.

In addition, JAK-STAT pathways emanating from IL-2, IL-6, IL-21, and IL-27 cytokine receptors affect TFH development, and crosstalk between TRAF-mediated pathways and the JAK-STAT pathways can contribute to generate integrated signals required to drive and sustain TFH differentiation.

A specific inhibitor of p38 MAP kinase completely inhibits the serine phosphorylation of STAT1 and STAT3 induced by IL-12 and IL-2 and abrogates the functional synergy between IL-12 and IL-2 without affecting STAT tyrosine phosphorylation.

In contrast, the JAK-3-selective inhibitor, PF-956980, suppressed STAT-1/-5 activation but did not affect STAT-3 activation in OSM-stimulated rheumatoid synovial fibroblasts.

Curcumin suppressed PTC cell survival in a dose-dependent manner via the induction of caspase-mediated apoptosis and caused the attenuation of constitutively active STAT3 (the dephosphorylation of Tyr705-STAT3) without affecting STAT3.

Previous protein over-expression studies have shown that various mutations to the common N-terminal STAT1-binding motif of the NiV P, V, and W proteins affected the STAT1-binding ability of these proteins thus interfering with he JAK/STAT pathway and reducing their ability to inhibit type-I IFN signaling, but due to differing techniques it was unclear which amino acids were most important in this interaction or what impact this had on pathogenesis in vivo.

KW-2478 downregulated the expression of STAT3, which is a key factor in the JAK-STAT pathway, indicating that KW-2478 may affect the function of HepG2 cells by downregulating STAT3.

SOD2 may affect the proliferation, invasion and metastasis of breast cancer cells possibly by regulating IL10 and/or STAT4 to affect the JAK/STAT signaling pathway.

In addition, AUH-6-96-treated L540 cells showed decreased expression of persistently activated JAK3, suggesting that AUH-6-96 inhibits the JAK/STAT pathway signaling in L540 cells by affecting JAK3 activity and subsequently blocking STAT3 signaling.

Because this activity by UV may contribute to its immunosuppressive properties we studied whether this is specific for STAT1 or whether UV also affects other members of the STAT family.

The aims of this study were to characterize PRL-induced activation of the JAK/STAT (signal transducers and activators of transcription) pathway, and to determine if ethanol affects JAK/STAT activation in cultured astrocytes.

The SHP-1 gene exert effect possibly through inhibiting the JAK/STAT pathway, the JAK3 is affected more than TYK2, the JAK3 may exert more important role in TAK/STAT pathway.

Here, we discuss how JAK/STAT signals affect ILC development and effector functions in the context of immune responses, highlighting the molecular mechanisms involved in regulation of gene expression as well as the potential of targeting the JAK/STAT pathway in inflammatory pathologies.

Genetic analysis revealed that components of JAK-STAT signaling pathway were affected in all investigated tumors by frequent mutations of SOCS1 and STAT6 as well as copy number gains of JAK2.

Mechanistically, the phosphorylation level of ERK1/2 and STAT3 was changed with the zinc level, suggesting that zinc may affect the neural differentiation of iPSCs through ERK-STAT signaling.

Further studies reveal that TBEV NS4A could block the phosphorylation and dimerization of STAT1/STAT2 to affect type I and II IFN-mediated STAT signalling.

Likewise, xanthoplanine prominently attenuated the transcription activity of STAT5 induced by LPS and IFN-γ but did not affect the transcription activity of STAT1 and STAT3.

miRs and lncRNAs are considered as potential upstream mediators of STAT3 and they are able to affect STAT3 expression in exerting their oncogene or onco-suppressor role in GC cells.

Furthermore, IFNT time-dependently induced STAT1 phosphorylation in LECs without affecting total STAT1.

In the two breast cancer cell lines, DCV selectively inhibited the phosphorylation of STAT3 Tyr-705, but did not affect the upstream components JAK1 and JAK2, as well as dephosphorylation of STAT3.

Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) , a final \ switch\ that activates gene expression that leads to malignancy, is specifically reduced up to 88 % by these peptides but they do not affect STAT1.

We also found that treatment with α-Br-TMC resulted in a downward shift of STAT5 proteins in SDS-PAGE, suggesting a post-translational modification that might affect STAT5 function.

Furthermore, xanthoangelol (5-50 μM) inhibited the phosphorylation of Stat 3 without affecting the expression of the Stat 3 protein in the differentiation process of M2 macrophages, which indicated that these chalcones inhibited the differentiation of M2 macrophages.

NSC74859, an inhibitor of STAT-3 affected neither the proliferation rate nor ACh cell content, whereas the more sensitive STAT-3 inhibitor FLLL31 reduced the proliferation rate and increased ACh cell content by about 3-fold.

STAT3 is specifically reduced as they do not affect STAT1.

The absence of PKC-θ did not affect IFNα-induced STAT-1 Tyr701 phosphorylation but affected the increase in STAT-1 phosphorylation on Ser727, attenuating CXCL10 secretion.

Pull-down assays confirm that IC pretreatment inhibits IFN-gamma-induced STAT1 phosphorylation without affecting the ability of STAT1 to bind to the STAT1-binding domain of the IFN-gamma receptor.

The same three also displayed absence of IFN-gamma-induced Stat1 beta tyrosine phosphorylation and low Stat1 alpha tyrosine phosphorylation, indicating a defect in the signal transduction pathway affecting phosphorylation of Stat1.

The nuclear transport of active NF-κB or STAT1 was also not affected by HSF1 inhibition, but HSF1 inhibition reduced the binding of NF-κB and STAT1 to their DNA elements.

Hypoxia and JAK/STAT inhibition reduce glutamate transporter expression in astrocytes, but unlike hypoxia JAK/STAT inhibition downregulates GLAST expression without affecting GLT-1, as demonstrated in vitro by treatment with JAK inhibitor I and in vivo by treatment with the JAK/STAT inhibitor AG490 [ (E)-2-cyano-3-(34-dihydrophenyl)-N-(phenylmethyl)-2-propenamide].

Previous work had indicated a Zn2+-dependent upregulation of STAT1 mRNA in response to LPS and IFN-β, potentially affecting STAT1-dependent downstream signaling upon pre-incubation with these agents.

Together, our results reveal a novel regulatory mechanism of IL-22 expression by STAT1 through directly antagonizing STAT3, and the importance of the balance between STAT3 and STAT1 in IL-22 regulation and psoriasis pathogenesis.

By carrying a combination of sgRNAs that targets STAT3 and RUNX1, the nanoRNP exhibited efficient gene expression disruptions on a heterogeneous tumor model with two subsets of cells whose proliferations were sensitive to the reduced expression of STAT3 and RUNX1, respectively, leading to the effective growth inhibition of the heterogeneous tumor.

Topical STAT-6-IP treatment reduced production of Th2 cytokines, demonstrated increased expression of IL-10 and reduced frequency of cultured IL-4 positive CD4+ T cells derived from treated mice, suggesting that STAT-6-IP treatment may be immunomodulatory.

In vitro studies showed that the phosphorylation of STAT3 and expression of ROR gamma, key regulators of IL17 signaling, were reduced while phosphorylation of STAT4 or STAT6 and expression of T-bet or GATA3 remained unaffected, suggesting that GSNO preferentially targets Th17 cells.

Using 32 P-reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction assays, we show that TGF-beta1-deficient recipients had an increased expression of the transcription factor STAT 4 , interferon gamma, and interleukin-2 (Th1-type response) and unaltered or reduced expression of the transcription factor STAT 6 , interleukin-4, and interleukin-10 (Th2-type response).

The activation of STAT-4 significantly reduced LSA-treated mice but not STAT-1.

We show that RanBP6 silencing impairs nuclear translocation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3)  reduces STAT3 binding to the EGFR promoter, results in transcriptional derepression of EGFR, and increased EGFR pathway output.

Upon G-CSF stimulation, Runx1(+/-) cells exhibited a more pronounced phosphorylation of STAT3 as compared with Runx1(+/+) cells, which may be due to reduced expression of Pias3, a key negative regulator of STAT3 signaling, and reduced physical sequestration of STAT3 by RUNX1.

Interestingly, methotrexate has been identified as a JAK/STAT inhibitor in a functional screen causing reduced phosphorylation of STAT proteins.

Interestingly, methotrexate has been identified as a JAK/STAT inhibitor in a functional screen, causing reduced phosphorylation of STAT proteins.

Overexpressing KLF2 in LPS-AMs inhibited the phosphorylation of STAT3 and reduced the levels of STAT3 target genes, including matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2/9 (MMP-2/9).

TG101348 selectively reversed neutrophilia, monocytosis, HSPC, and granulocyte-macrophage progenitor (GMP) expansion in Apoe-/- mice with decreased cellular phosphorylated STAT5 and ERK1/2 and reduced cell cycling and BrdU incorporation in HSPCs, indicating inhibition of JAK/STAT signaling and cell proliferation.

Treatment with STAT3/5 but not JAK1/2 inhibitors reduced survival, levels of phosphorylated STAT3 and Cyclin-D1 and increased apoptosis.

Further, 27 HC treatment of constitutively active STAT3 DU145 prostate cancer cells reduced STAT3 activation and slowed tumor growth in vitro and in vivo.

The IFN-alpha induced inhibition of IL-2 induced proliferation in activated T-lymphocytes, was associated with a suppressed Jak3 protein expression as well as an inhibited prolonged Stat5 DNA binding, and a partially reduced expression of the Stat5 inducible gene IL-2R alpha.

Parthenolide, a signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT1 and STAT3) phosphorylation inhibitor reduced OSM-induced ADAMTS-4 and MMP-13 gene expression and prevented STAT1/3 DNA binding activity.

Mutations of STAT5 that eliminated the interaction with JAK1 reduced the activation of STAT5 upon the gp130 stimulation, although such mutants could be still activated through erythropoietin receptor.

Pretreatment the inhibitors of JAK2, STAT3, STAT5 or AMPK significantly reduced LPS-increased mRNA and protein expression of cPLA2 together with phosphorylation of JAK2, STAT3, STAT5 and AMPK, separately.

Here we report that the activation of the JAK/STAT pathway by IFN-α stimulation is disrupted by HIV proteins Vpu and Nef, which both reduce IFN-α induction of STAT1 phosphorylation.

Lacking comma: Chromosomal deletion of the STAT5 binding site in LOUCY cells reduced protein levels of STAT5 in some MEF2C-positve T-ALL cell lines, and the presence of inhibitory IL7-JAK-STAT5 signaling highlighted the repressive impact of this factor in MEF2C regulation.

Epithelia, but not macrophages, pretreated with TGF-beta were hyporesponsive to IFN-gamma stimulation as indicated by reduced expression of four STAT1-regulated genes and reduced STAT1 DNA binding on EMSA.

Overexpression of PP2Ac in Huh7 cells resulted in hypomethylation of STAT1, increased binding to PIAS1, and reduced interferon-alpha-induced DNA binding of STAT1.

siRNA-mediated STAT3 or GLI1 knockdown reduced promoter binding of GLI1 and STAT3, respectively.

JAK-STAT inhibition reduces the profibrotic effects of PDGF stimulation on canine fibroblasts in vitro while attenuating in vivo LA-fibrosis and remodelling in post-MI mice, suggesting that the JAK/STAT pathway contributes to LA-fibrogenesis and might be a potential target for LA-fibrosis prevention.

RES also inhibited the nuclear translocation of signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) 3 and reduced the LPS-mediated phosphorylation of Janus kinase (JAK) 2 and STAT3 at the sites of Ser727 and Tyr705.

Mechanistically, SOCS gene delivery, primarily SOCS1, attenuated STAT1 and STAT3 activation and reduced the expression of STAT-dependent genes (chemokine/chemokine receptors, adhesion molecules, pro-inflammatory cytokines and scavenger receptors) in aortic tissue.

Whereas IL-10 and TNF-α do not seem to participate in their differential production of NO, IFN-β has a determinant role since 1) anti-IFN-β neutralizing antibodies abolish STAT-1 activation reducing NO production in C57BL/6 macrophages to levels as low as in BALB/c cells and 2) exogenous rIFN-β confers to LPS-stimulated BALB/c macrophages the ability to phosphorylate STAT-1 and to produce NO as efficiently as C57BL/6 cells.

Treatment of various types of cancer cells with APTSTAT3-9R blocked STAT3 phosphorylation and reduced expression of STAT targets, including cyclin D1, Bcl-xL, and survivin.

Our studies show that transient or stable knockdown of Rictor or Sin1 results in defects in activation of elements of the STAT pathway and reduced STAT-DNA binding complexes.

Grain-moxibustion has remarkable effect on Lewis lung cancer, by improving survival state reducing death rate, and controlling growth rate of tumor, which might be associated with its function of inhibiting the activation of IL-6 and STAT 3 in inflammatory microenvironment.

STAT6 probably enhances cellular damage in myocardial infraction, which is significantly reduced in mice with the knockout STAT6 gene.

Genetic disruption of Stat1 in the mouse model of FAP reduced tumor formation, demonstrating that the IFN/STAT pathway is causally associated with the tumor-forming potential of APC-deficient tumors.

The repressor, called TSU-- trophoblast STAT (signal transducers and activators of transcription) utron (untranslated region of an mRNA)-- reduced STAT1 nuclear translocation and suppressed major histocompatibility complex class II antigen expression at high doses of interferon-gamma and class I expression at low doses of interferon-gamma.

Furthermore, when DCs were transduced with both STAT3ca and IκBαSR together, they reduced CIA manifestation significantly stronger than when transduced with only STAT3ca or IκBαSR separately.

shRNA-mediated knockdown of JAK1 or STAT3 in ovarian cancer cells led to reduced tumor growth, decreased peritoneal dissemination, and diminished ascites production, suggesting a critical role of STAT3 in ovarian cancer progression.

Icaritin inhibited both constitutive and IL-6-induced phospho-STAT3 (STAT3(Y705)) and reduced the level of STAT3-regulated proteins Bcl-xL, Mcl-1, Survivin, and CyclinD1 in a dose-dependent manner.

PN significantly decreases the JAK-STAT pathway by reducing levels of phosphorylated STAT-6 and JAK-1.

Of note, ganetespib treatment results in sustained depletion of JAK2, including the constitutively active JAK2(V617F) mutant, with subsequent loss of STAT activity and reduced STAT-target gene expression.

Furthermore, phosphorylated JAK and STAT3 in tumor tissue were both reduced after fucoidan treatment, and promoter activation of STAT3-regulated genes, such as VEGF, Bcl-xL and Cyclin D1, was also significantly reduced after treatment.

BRM shRNA reduced the proliferation and increased the sensitivity of pancreatic cancer cells to gemcitabine in\240\vivo and in\240\vitro, and these effects are associated with the inhibition of STAT3 phosphorylation and reduced transcription of STAT3 target genes.

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 15
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 16
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 17
'CD4',bind,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 18
'CD8',bind,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 19
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT';'MHC',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

----> event: 'MHC',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 6

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 20
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT';'MHC',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

----> event: 'MHC',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 7

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 21
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT';'importin',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

----> event: 'importin',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 8

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 22
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT';'importin',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

----> event: 'importin',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 9

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 23
'CD4',bind,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT';'CD4',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 10

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 24
'CD4',bind,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT';'CD4',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 11

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 25
'CD8',bind,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT';'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 12

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 26
'CD8',bind,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT';'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 13

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 27
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

Our results demonstrated statin-mediated increases in suppressor of cytokine secretion (SOCS) 3 and suppressor of cytokine secretion 7 , which negatively regulate the STAT/JAK signal transduction pathway and IL-6 and IL-23 gene expression in monocytes.

To isolate the role of Stat6 in regulating Th2 cell trafficking and effector function from its role in Th2 cell differentiation, we used a murine model of asthma in which in vitro-differentiated Stat6(+/+) antigen-specific Th2 cells were adoptively transferred into naive Stat6(-/-) and Stat6(+/+) mice followed by aerosol antigen challenge.

To determine whether Stat5a regulates T helper cell differentiation, we studied T helper (Th) 1 and Th2 cell differentiation of Stat5a(-/-) CD4(+) T cells at single-cell levels.

BCL-6, a transcriptional repressor that can bind to the same DNA binding motifs as STAT transcription factors, seems to regulate TH2 responses in vivo by a pathway independent of IL-4 and STAT6.

We found that STAT3 positively regulates TGF-beta1 promoter activity depending on the potential STAT3 binding sites.

These data indicate that functional Stat5 isoform expression is regulated by T-cell activation status and that dysregulated expression of Stat5(t) in malignant T cells in SzS can suppress Stat5-dependent gene expression.

The JAK-STAT pathway critically regulates T-cell differentiation, and STAT1 is postulated to regulate several immune-mediated diseases by inducing proinflammatory subsets.

HO-1 bound to three domains on STAT3 (DNA-binding, linker, and transactivation domains) to directly regulate STAT3 activation.

These results first indicate that Erk1/2 and STAT-3 regulate CCR5 expression, and that Erk-mediated phosphorylation of Ser is required for full stimulation of STAT-3 in CCR5 expression.

Interaction studies show that Hipk can physically interact with Stat92E and regulate Stat92E subcellular localization.

Here, using deep RNA-sequencing of neurons exposed to BDNF in the presence and absence of well characterized JAK/STAT inhibitors, and without non-neuronal cells, we determine the BDNF transcriptome that is specifically regulated by agents that inhibit JAK/STAT signaling.

While a subset of genes was regulated by the concerted action of STAT2 and IRF9, other gene sets were independently regulated by STAT2 or IRF9.

We show that STAT3 regulates a discrete set of genes in melanoma cells, including SERPINA3, a novel STAT3 target gene, which is functionally involved in regulation of melanoma migration and invasion.

The miR-1 promoter contained a STAT binding site and its transcriptional activity could be regulated by the JAK-STAT pathway.

Of the seven STAT family members, four STATs are expressed in adipocytes and regulated during adipogenesis (STATs 1 , 3 , 5 A, and 5 B).

Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) common in the STAT-interfered groups and control groups at different times after WSSV infection were analyzed to acquire the genes probably regulated by LvSTAT.

The protein inhibitor of activated STAT (PIAS) proteins are important signal transduction modulator family and regulate the innate immune signaling pathway induced by certain transcription factors, including NF-κB, IRF3, and JAK/STAT.

Although STAT5 is known to regulate CIS expression, thrombin did not activate STAT5, and inhibitors of JAK2 (AG490) and JAK3 (WHI-P97 and WHI-P154) had little effect on thrombin-induced CIS expression.

We further found that PC-PLC activation is necessary but not sufficient to promote STAT6 activation, and therefore, additional intracellular pathways regulated by IL-4 and pervanadate may collaborate with PC-PLC to signal STAT6 activation.

Identification of novel, tissue-specific STAT5 regulated genes would advance the ability to combat diseases due to aberrant STAT5 signaling.

These findings proffer a model in which un-activated STAT5 can regulate pathways critical for lymphoid cell survival and inhibitors that disrupt STAT5 function independent of tyrosine phosphorylation may be therapeutically effective in treating certain leukemias/lymphomas.

Our data show that, whereas c-fos is regulated through a pathway independent of STAT activation, oncostatin M, IRF-1, and egr-1 are regulated by an STAT5-dependent pathway and fibrinogen is regulated by an STAT3-dependent pathway.

Although TSLP has effects on a broad range of hematopoetic cells and can induce STAT5 phosphorylation, TSLP was reported to not signal via JAK kinases, and the mechanism by which TSLP regulates STAT5 phosphorylation has been unclear.

They blocked the constitutive STAT3 phosphorylation in a dose- and time-dependent manner and regulated the transcription of STAT3 target genes encoding apoptosis factors.

The protein inhibitor of activated STAT (PIAS) family proteins regulates innate immune responses by controlling transcription induced by Toll-like receptor, RIG-I-like receptor signaling, and JAK/STAT pathways.

We show that MASK is able to regulate receptor levels and JAK/STAT signalling both in vitro and in vivo We also show that its human homologue, ANKHD1, is also able to regulate JAK/STAT signalling and the levels of a subset of pathway receptors in human cells.

Previous in vitro studies showed that keratinocyte differentiation coordinates the balance between positive and negative signals along the JAK/STAT pathway by regulating the IRF1:IRF2 and STAT1:PIAS1 ratios and thus affecting induction of IQ-inducible genes.

STAT3 transcriptional activity can be negatively regulated by protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 (PIAS3).

By combining genome-wide expression profiling with pharmacological STAT-6 inhibition, we have identified the genes regulated by STAT-6 in MF/SS tumors.

Signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) is a critical mediator of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma)-induced transcription that is regulated through posttranslational modifications and through transacting proteins such as protein inhibitor of activated STAT1 (PIAS1).

The protein inhibitor of activated STAT (PIAS) family has been suggested to negatively regulate STAT signaling.

In a mechanistic analysis, we identified a functional STAT5 response element within the Pnpla2 promoter, indicating that Pnpla2 is transcriptionally regulated by STAT5.

Finally, we found that calyculin A, a pharmacological inhibitor of protein phosphatase 2 A (PP2A) and PP1 abolishes the repression of STAT1 phosphorylation mediated by PGC-1α, suggesting a new mechanism of PGC-1α in regulating STAT1/IRF-1 pathway.

CIMO accumulates cancer cells in the sub-G1 phase and decreases STAT3 in the nucleus and thereby causes down-regulation of genes regulated via STAT3.

The Janus kinase (JAK)-signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) pathway mediates signalling by numerous cytokines and hormones that regulate adipocyte function, illustrating the physiological importance of adipose JAK-STAT.

A dual‑luciferase activity assay revealed that miR‑20b directly targeted STAT3 to regulate its expression, and that interference with STAT3 expression significantly downregulated VEGF mRNA and protein expression.

Eight genes Ltf, Tnf, Il6, Jun, Il12b, Stat3, Rel and Crem could regulate the inflammatory factors, and TNF signaling pathway and Jak-STAT signaling pathway might play an important role in the mechanism through which DECB protected the liver of mice.

These results reveal that STAT1 pS727 regulates growth and differentiation in JAK-STAT activated neoplasms and suggest that Mediator kinase inhibition represents a therapeutic strategy to regulate JAK-STAT signaling.

We also demonstrated that PML shared a large cohort of regulatory genes with Stat1 and Stat3, indicating an important role of PML in regulating Stat1 and Stat3 activity.

FRK associated with STAT1, induced STAT1 nuclear translocation and regulated the expressions of STAT1-related target genes.

Synergistic activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT)-1 or IFN regulating factor (IRF)-1 was not observed, and STAT-1 did not bind the CIITA inducible promoter.

These results show that WP1066 can block proliferation, reduce inflammation and induce apoptosis in gastric tumour cells by inhibiting STAT3 phosphorylation, and that many cytokines and growth factors that promote gastric tumour growth are regulated by STAT3-dependent mechanisms.

In this study, we examined the roles of STAT3 pY705 and pS727 in regulating mESC identities, using a small molecule-based system to post-translationally modulate the quantity of transgenic STAT3 in STAT3(-/-) mESCs.

STAT3 and phospho-STAT3 protein expression was upregulated or downregulated by a miR-106a inhibitor or miR-106a mimic, respectively, indicating that miR-106a negatively regulates STAT3.

Furthermore, a seven-member family of transcription factors named Signal Transducers and Activators of Transcription (STAT) that initiate the transcriptional activation of different genes are also involved and regulate downstream the JAK/STAT signaling pathway.

The JAK-STAT pathway is proposed to be regulated through direct arginine methylation of STAT transcription factors, and STAT3 signaling is known to be required for leptin regulation of energy balance.

Furthermore, ASI induced the phosphorylation of JAK (1.89-fold) and STAT3 (2.95-fold) , as well as the activity of VEGF promoter which was regulated by STAT3.

In contrast to transient STAT3 Y705 and S727 phosphorylation in murine embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) stimulated by the interleukin-6 family cytokine, leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) , under non-stress conditions, HOS induced by sorbitol treatment increased STAT3 S727 but not Y705 phosphorylation.

Analysis of two EPO receptor (EPOR) transfected CTLL-2 cell lines discloses that IL-2 activates JAK1 and JAK3 as well as STAT5, while EPO stimulates STAT5 and JAK2 in EPO-responsive CTLL-2 cells (ERT/E2).

SW480 cells were transfected with STAT3 siRNA or treated with STAT3 inhibitor Niclosamide, and then stimulated with EGF to change the expressions of STAT3 and p-STAT3.

Furthermore, silencing STAT3 inhibited basal, LPS and MDP stimulated NFKB protein expression and overexpression of protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 (Pias3) markedly decreased basal NFKB activity.

Since loricrin transcription requires p300/CBP, and Stat6 also recruits this common coactivator for its stimulated factors, we hypothesize that IL-4-activated Stat6 competes for the available endogenous p300/CBP, leading to loricrin transcription inhibition.

Compared with the untreated group, MSC + BiAb + MB, MSC + BiAb and MSC groups had decreased levels of MMP-9, TIMP-1, STAT1 and collagen deposition, and increased levels of STAT3.

Topical STAT-6-IP treatment reduced production of Th2 cytokines, demonstrated increased expression of IL-10 and reduced frequency of cultured IL-4 positive CD4+ T cells derived from treated mice, suggesting that STAT-6-IP treatment may be immunomodulatory.

Increased STAT5 expression was associated with increased FOXP3 expression among lymphocytes, and STAT5 was constitutively activated among both melanoma cells and lymphocytes.

Infection of T cells with HVS or expression of recombinant Tip-484 significantly increased the DNA-binding activity of the STAT1 and STAT3 transcription factors in nuclear extracts and also increased the phosphorylation of STAT3 in vivo.

Surprisingly, STAT6(-/-) and BALB/c reciprocal bone marrow chimeras do not have increased immunosurveillance, demonstrating that immunity requires STAT6(-/-) hemopoietic and nonhemopoietic components.

However, STAT6(-/-) and CD1(-/-) reciprocal bone marrow chimeras do not have increased survival, suggesting that immunity in STAT6(-/-) and CD1(-/-) mice is via noncomplementing mechanisms.

Therefore, while IL-15 does not promote the STAT signaling in DCs, the increased STAT3 activity after LPS/TNFα treatment of the IL-15 DCs has a key role in their high IFN-γ effector activities.

IFNγ activated signal transducers and activators of transcription 1 (STAT1) and STAT3 phosphorylation in NHMs, and IL-4 increased the STAT3 and STAT6 phosphorylation.

Major clinical improvement was achieved after 8 \240\weeks of ruxolitinib treatment, while sustained suppression of IFNγ- and IFNα-induced phosphorylation of STAT1, STAT3, and STAT5, as well as increased STAT3-inducible and Th17-related gene expression, was demonstrated ex vivo.

We show that the oxidative hepatic environment in obesity inactivates the STAT-1 and STAT-3 phosphatase T\240\cell protein tyrosine phosphatase (TCPTP) and increases STAT-1 and STAT-3 signaling.

In a tumor vaccination approach, we found Stat3∆/∆ CD103+ cDC1s restrained mammary gland tumor growth and increased mouse survival more effectively than STAT3-sufficient CD103+ cDC1s.

These signal receptors were mainly connected to downstream Jak-STAT signaling that involved the increased genes (JAK2, STAT3, and POMC) and mTOR signaling pathway, including the decreased genes (CAMKK2, AMPK, and MTOR).

IL-7 activated the JAK/STAT pathway, with increased phosphorylation of JAK-3 and STAT-3, leading to increased production of S100A4 and MMP-13.

High JAK-STAT scores were associated with increased mortality rates in brain and renal cancers, but not in lung and endometrial cancers where hyperactive JAK-STAT signaling is a positive prognostic factor.

Phosphorylated STAT5, AKT, p70S6K and MAPK were increased in copanlisib-resistant B-cell lymphoma cells, whereas phosphorylated STAT3 and NF-κB were increased in duvelisib-resistant T cell lymphoma cells.

Furthermore, Silencing of SpSTAT in vivo resulted in higher mortality rate of MCRV infected mud crab and increased the viral load in tissues, suggesting that SpSTAT could play an important role in defense against MCRV in mud crab.

We also investigated effects of p38α on gp130/JAK-STAT pathways, in which p38α increased expression of protein, gp130, EGFR, Jak2, STAT1, STAT3, STAT5, ras, and TF.

Signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT1) 1 gain of function (GOF) pathogenic variants have been associated with increased levels of phosphorylated STAT1 and STAT1-dependent cellular responses.

This STAT1-p65 co-binding significantly increased after subsequent LPS exposure and correlated with histone acetylation, PolII recruitment, and amplified target gene transcription in a STAT1-p65 co-bound dependent manner.

Both patients had increased phosphorylation of Akt, S6, and STAT1 in NK cells, and increased total STAT1.

As to the molecular signaling cascade linking AMPK to STAT3, we disclosed that AMPK suppressed STAT3 not only by attenuating JAK signaling but also by activating nuclear factor erythroid-2-related factor-2 (Nrf2) , a redox-regulating transcription factor, which consequently increased the expression of small heterodimer protein (SHP) , thus repressing the transcriptional activity of STAT3.

Furthermore, we found that JAK2 and STAT3 phosphorylation were up-regulated in rabbits with atherosclerosis when compared with those of the control group, followed by the expression of SOCS3 was also increased due to the activation of JAK2 and STAT3.

STAT1 was accountable for IFN-γ-induced activation of the β-catenin promoter, and IFN-γ increased the binding affinity of STAT1 to β-catenin promoter based on luciferase activity and chromatin immunoprecipitation.

In addition, overexpression of STAT5 increased virus production in unstimulated primary T cells-both the number of p24+ cells and their level of p24 production-suggesting that STAT5 promotes a permissive state for HIV infection.

TCPTP-deficient lymphocytes treated with IL-2 had increased levels of tyrosine-phosphorylated STAT5, and thymocytes treated with interferon (IFN)-alpha or IFN-gamma had increased tyrosine-phosphorylated STAT1.

Addition of IFNgamma decreased pSTAT6 in Stat6(high) cells to Stat6(null) levels while blocking IFNgamma increased baseline pSTAT6 in Stat6(null) cells to levels similar to Stat6(high) cells.

V2O5 had no effect on expression of JAK3 and STAT5, but did cause an increase in pJAK3 and appeared to lead (trend) to reductions in levels of phosphorylated STAT5.

Recent molecular evidence further suggests that upregulation of STAT5 in early disease stages results in increased expression of oncogenic miR-155 microRNA that subsequently targets STAT4 expression on mRNA level.

This was primarily due to the co-binding of STAT5 and HOXA9 to the same genomic loci leading to increased oncogenic JAK-STAT signaling.

The Janus kinase (JAK)-signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) signaling pathway was activated in RSC96 cells treated with high glucose, which was indicated by increased STAT3 phosphorylation.

Increasing STAT3 amount increases Channel Capacity and robustness, whereas increasing STAT3 tyrosine phosphorylation reduces robustness but increases Channel Capacity.

2 , rt-hLEP and specific inhibitors AG490 (JAK-STAT inhibitor) were used to explore whether leptin induced oocytes maturation, and found that leptin incubation increased the diameters of oocytes and percentage of germinal vesicle breakdown (GVBD)-MII oocytes, up-regulated mRNA levels of genes involved in oocytes maturation and that leptin-induced oocyte maturation was related to activation of JAK-STAT pathway.

Jak/Stat blockade prevented the increase in cFos-expressing neurons after chronic stimulation, confirming an important role for Jak/Stat signaling in activity-dependent CST synapse formation.

HBV inhibited dramatically the methylation rather than the phosphorylation of STAT1, which was consistent with an increased STAT1-PIAS1 interaction.

Less STAT1 methylation and subsequent increased STAT1-PIAS1 interaction are involved in the mechanism of the IFN-alpha-antagonistic activity of HBV.

Overexpression of PP2Ac in Huh7 cells resulted in hypomethylation of STAT1 increased binding to PIAS1, and reduced interferon-alpha-induced DNA binding of STAT1.

We conclude that HCV interferes with interferon-alpha signaling via up-regulation of PP2Ac, hypomethylation of STAT1, and increased STAT1-PIAS1 association, resulting in reduced transcriptional activation of interferon-alpha-stimulated genes.

Following PHA/IL-2 activation, CD8+ T cells from STAT4 risk allele carriers displayed increased levels of STAT4 resulting in increased pSTAT4 in response to IL-12 and IFN-α, and an augmented IL-12-induced IFN-γ production in CD8+ and CD4+ T cells.

Thus, the proteolytic cleavage of the N-terminus of Stat5a/b may be a mechanism by which Stat5 evades the transcriptional repression by PIAS3 in prostate cancer cells, and results in increased Stat5-driven gene expression and prostate cancer progression.

In wild-type STAT3 cells increasing concentrations of PIAS3 resulted in a proportional decrease in STAT3 phosphorylation.

Increased STAT1 and P-STAT1 levels in MG rats were observed by week 6 , whereas increased levels of STAT3 and P-STAT3 were noted by week 2.

PPF decreased the level of phosphorylated STAT3 (p-STAT3)  increased the level of p-STAT5, but did not change the levels of STAT3 and STAT5.

A number of studies investigating experimental models and cancer cell lines have revealed that STAT6 is associated with tumor growth and development, as well as with increased invasion and metastasis, suggesting that STAT6 inhibition may serve as a novel therapeutic strategy in colon cancer.

Specifically, overexpression of PML in the cell lines bearing wild-type p53 (NIH3T3 and U87-MG cells) decreased OSM-induced STAT-3 transcriptional activity, whereas overexpression of PML increased OSM-induced STAT-3 transcriptional activity in mutant p53-bearing cell lines (HEK293T and U251-MG cells).

However, overexpressed alpha4 decreased arginine methylation of Stat1alpha and increased Stat1alpha binding to the Stat1alpha-specific inhibitor, PIAS1.

In summary, ectopic alpha4 increased PP2A activity in COS-1 cells and this was accompanied by Stat1alpha hypomethylation and increased Stat1alpha-PIAS1 association.

This inhibition arises from impaired STAT1-DNA binding due to an increased association of the STAT inhibitor PIAS1 with phosphorylated STAT1 dimers in the absence of arginine methylation.

We found that protein levels of Stat1 were increased in CF cells, but that the active phosphorylated form of Stat1 was bound to the protein inhibitor of activated Stat1 (PIAS1).

A potential mechanism for reduced NOS2 expression in CF is diminished signal transducer and activator of transcription-1 (STAT1) activity, possibly due to an increase in expression of protein inhibitor of activated STAT1 (PIAS1).

Mouse embryonic fibroblasts null for p190B Rho GTPase-activating protein exhibit increased RhoA protein content and activation, similar to what is observed in CF models, and also exhibit CF-like alterations in STAT1 regulation, including decreased STAT1 activation increased PIAS1 protein expression, and reduced NOS2 induction, implicating RhoA-mediated signaling in CF-related STAT1 alterations.

In the complex, NOK greatly elevated the c-Src-mediated STAT3 activation by increasing the phosphorylation level of STAT3 on Tyr705.

We also found that PI3K inhibition increases STAT1 protein levels following IFNγ treatment and increases accessibility at genomic STAT1-binding motifs.

The cytoplasmic region of nectin-4 directly interacted with suppressor of cytokine signaling 1 (SOCS1) , but not SOCS3, JAK2, or STAT5a, and inhibited the interaction of SOCS1 with JAK2, eventually resulting in the increased phosphorylation of STAT5a.

Adipocyte-specific deletion of Stat5 resulted in increased adiposity, while insulin resistance and gluconeogenic capacity was decreased, indicating that glucose metabolism can be improved by interfering with adipose STAT5 function.

7 cells resulted in a decrease in the phosphorylation of STAT3, an increase in expression of vascular endothelial growth factor A and placental growth factor, and an increase in the phosphorylation of STAT1, IκBα and p65 proteins compared with controls.

The mRNA levels of tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) , interferon-γ(IFN-γ) , interleukin-2 (IL-2) , T-bet and signal transducer and activators of transcription 4 (STAT 4) were increased and the mRNA levels of IL-10, GA-TA-binding protein-3 (GATA-3) and STAT 6 were decreased.

Although cisplatin increased serine phosphorylation of STAT1 in wild-type mice and diminished STAT3 expression in wild-type and STAT1(-/-) mice, gentamicin increased tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT3 in STAT1(-/-) mice.

Compared with the Control group, CD47 + MSC + BiAb + MB, CD47 + MSC + BiAb, CD47 + MSC and MSC groups had decreased levels of MMP-9, TIMP-1, STAT 1 and collagen deposition, and increased levels of STAT 3.

Ach exposure decreased STAT-1 methylation via activation of protein phosphatase 2 A and increased the protein inhibitor of activated STAT-1 (PIAS-1)-STAT-1 complex formation in both HCV(+) and HCV(-) cells, preventing ISG activation.

CLCF-1 increased phosphorylation of STAT3 in multiple cell types, activated podocytes leading to formation of lamellipodia and decrease in basal stress fibers increased glomerular albumin permeability, and increased STAT3 phosphorylation of peripheral blood cells and renal cortex.

CLCF-1 increased phosphorylation of STAT3 in multiple cell types, activated podocytes leading to formation of lamellipodia and decrease in basal stress fibers, increased glomerular albumin permeability, and increased STAT3 phosphorylation of peripheral blood cells and renal cortex.

Furthermore, a select group of STAT-associated genes was increased preclinically during scrapie infection, suggesting early activation of the STAT signal transduction pathway.

STAT3 and SMAD4 expression levels were found increased in the presence of HCV core, which orchestrated SMAD4 translocation into the nucleus and STAT3 phosphorylation.

The results demonstrate cross-talk between nutritionally induced mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 signaling and minimally modified low-density lipoprotein-mediated inflammatory signaling via combinatorial phosphorylation of STAT3 in macrophages, leading to increased STAT3 activity on the chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 2 (monocyte chemoattractant protein 1) promoter with proatherogenic consequences.

The absence of PKC-θ did not affect IFNα-induced STAT-1 Tyr701 phosphorylation but affected the increase in STAT-1 phosphorylation on Ser727, attenuating CXCL10 secretion.

Thus, Stat1-/-Pdgfrb+/D849V fibroblasts exhibit increased PDGFRβ signaling, and mice develop progressive overgrowth, a distinct phenotype from the wasting seen in Stat1+/-Pdgfrb+/D849V mice.

RPL10 R98S expressing cells displayed JAK-STAT pathway hyper-activation upon cytokine stimulation, as well as increased sensitivity to clinically used JAK-STAT inhibitors like pimozide.

Activated phospho-STAT3 (STAT-Y640F) significantly increased DNMT3b/OCT4, while dominant negative phospho-STAT3 (STAT-Y705F) was suppressive.

Stat1-/- mice displayed increased tumor growth and metastasis compared to Stat1+/+ mice.

Analysis of dividing RG revealed that STAT3 selectively increased the proportion of dividing RG, whereas downregulation of STAT3 reduced the proportion.

Notably, the JAK-STAT pathway is altered by KLF4, with increased phosphorylation of STAT3 at tyrosine 705.

Furthermore, STAT3 knockdown led to an increase in glucose consumption, lactate production, and expression of Hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (HIF1α) target genes, suggesting that STAT3 is a negative regulator of aerobic glycolysis.

Finally, chromatin immunoprecipitation with a STAT5 antibody revealed increased STAT5 binding to the promoter region of prosurvival Bcl-xL.

Accordingly, Ras-transformed Stat3(Δhc)/p19(ARF-/-) hepatocytes (lacking Stat3 and p19(ARF)) showed increased tumor growth, compared to those expressing Stat3, demonstrating a tumor-suppressor activity of Stat3 in cells lacking p19(ARF).

Furthermore, inhibition of STAT3 significantly increased neuroblastoma cell sensitivity to cisplatin and decreased tumor growth and increased the survival of tumor-bearing mice in vivoConclusions: Our study supports the development of strategies targeting STAT3 inhibition in combination with conventional chemotherapy for patients with high-risk neuroblastoma.

The activated STAT3 enhanced TGF-beta1 and IL-10 expression in T cells, whereas the dominant-negative form of STAT3 suppressed these.

Using these probes, we show that repeated adjacent STAT6-binding sites result in enhanced STAT6-DNA binding.

By contrast, STAT3-deficient T cells in the airway exhibited significantly enhanced production of Th2 cell cytokines compared to STAT3-sufficient T cells.

Indeed, STAT5 phosphorylation and translocation into the nucleus was enhanced in JWH133-treated Th17 lymphocytes, and the addition of a STAT5 inhibitor reversed the inhibitory effect of the CB2 agonist on IL-17 production, without affecting IL-22 levels.

STAT3 inhibition in normal TH9 cultures diminished early IL-21 induction and late IL-9 production, whereas exogenous IL-21 enhanced TH9 differentiation, even with STAT3 inhibition, by restoring suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 expression and thus inhibiting excessive phosphorylated signal transducer and activator of transcription (p-STAT) 1 activation.

STAT1/2 nuclear accumulation was inhibited by rotavirus even in the presence of the nuclear export inhibitor Leptomycin B, demonstrating that enhanced nuclear export is not involved in STAT1/2 cytoplasmic retention.

CRM1-mediated nuclear export persisted despite the oxidative stress insult, with sustained STAT3 Y705 phosphorylation enhancing STAT3 nuclear residency.

JAK inhibitors or a selective STAT5 SH2 domain inhibitor induced cell death and ruxolitinib blocked T-cell neoplasia in vivo We conclude that enhanced STAT5A or STAT5B action both drive PTCL development, defining both STAT5 molecules as targets for therapeutic intervention.

We identified the Janus kinase (JAK)/signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) 1 pathway as a regulator of both glycolysis and IDO, and show that enhanced glucose turnover is linked to abundant STAT1 glycosylation.

Expression of the STAT3-specific inhibitor, Socs3, was obviously enhanced dose-dependently by AESIS-1 at both the mRNA and protein levels, resulting in a significant reduction of STAT3 phosphorylation in splenocytes from severe CIA mice.

Overall, considering such losses of negative regulators and the GOF mutations in JAK and STAT genes, a total of 89.8 % of T-PLL revealed a genomic aberration potentially explaining enhanced STAT5B activity.

The expression of SOCS1, SOCS2, SOCS3, and CISH, which inhibit STAT activation, was enhanced in CDM-3008-treated cells suggesting that a feedback inhibition of the JAK/STAT pathway was enhanced in CDM-3008-treated cells compared to IFNα-treated cells.

Over-expression of the JAK-STAT pathway components STAT, JAK and Domeless in vitro significantly enhanced the transcriptional activity of the LvSWD4 promoter, and in vivo silencing of STAT and the the JAK-STAT pathway upstream regulator IRF down-regulated the expression of LvSWD4, suggesting that LvSWD4 could be a target gene of the JAK-STAT pathway.

It does so by recruiting STAT1 to the β-catenin promoter enhancing cis-regulation by STAT1, and ultimately activating Wnt/β-catenin signaling.

By using RNA pulldown assay followed by western blotting and RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) , we identified Stat3 was the MNX1-AS1 binding protein and MNX1-AS1 upregulated the phosphorylation of Stat3 by enhancing the interaction between p-JAK and Stat3.

Compared with control group, activation of STAT3 was enhanced in SAP group, and expression of STAT3 mRNA and protein was also enhanced, level of SP-C protein declined (2 hours SP-C fluorescence index 0.69 +/- 0.02 vs.

Also, we have identified JAK/STAT and PI-PLC-PKC activation triggered by LMP1 through upregulating the expression of JAK3 and enhancing the phosphorylation of STAT.

The data suggest that PRL activation of Jak1 represents a novel, Jak2-dependent mechanism that may serve as a regulatory switch leading to PRL activation of ERK and Stat3 pathways, while also serving to enhance PRL-induced Stat5a/b and Akt signaling.

The selected cells required activation of STAT5 for growth, which was blocked by STAT5delta expression and enhanced by overexpression of wild-type STAT5.

Integrated RNA sequencing, chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing, and Assay for Transposase-Accessible Chromatin using sequencing (ATAC-seq) revealed that STAT5 and HOXA9 have co-occupancy across the genome, resulting in enhanced STAT5 transcriptional activity and ectopic activation of FOS/JUN (AP1).

Decreased expression of RIG-I in melanoma TRCs led to diminished activation of STAT1 via enhancing the interaction between Src homology region 2 domain-containing phosphatase-1 and STAT1.

In the absence of A20, STAT1 but not STAT3 expression is enhanced leading to STAT1-dependent inflammation.

Consistent with this increase in STAT3 phosphorylation, pre-treatment of HepG2 cells with PTE enhanced IL-6-induced STAT3 phosphorylation and attenuated oleic acid-induced steatosis in a STAT3-dependent manner.

We show using Stat1(-/-) , Stat2(-/-) and IRF9(-/-) MEFs that induction of ADAR1 p150 occurs by STAT2- and IRF9-dependent signaling that is enhanced by, but not obligatorily dependent upon, STAT1.

STAT3 pharmacological inhibition and small interfering RNA-mediated STAT3 knockdown in TCPTP deficient cells restored GSIS to control levels, indicating that the effects of TCPTP deficiency were mediated, at least in part, through enhanced STAT3 phosphorylation and signalling.

CNTF treatment prevented reduced STAT3 phosphorylation (Tyr 705) in DRG of STZ-diabetic mice and also enhanced STAT3 phosphorylation in rat DRG cultures.

Ex vivo analysis demonstrated an impaired ability of Btk(-/-) macrophages to polarize into M1 macrophages, instead showing enhanced induction of immunosuppressive M2-associated markers in response to M1 polarizing stimuli, a finding accompanied by reduced phosphorylation of STAT1 and enhanced STAT6 phosphorylation.

Conversely, physalin D can also activate STAT6 and enhance STAT6 nuclear translocation for M2 polarization.

Here we show that brahma-related gene 1 (BRG1) , an ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling factor, and the transcription factor STAT3 are required for Gfap and oncostatin M receptor (Osmr) clustering and enhanced expression through recruitment to STAT3 recognition sequences and that gene clustering occurs prior to transcriptional up-regulation.

STAT6 probably enhances cellular damage in myocardial infraction, which is significantly reduced in mice with the knockout STAT6 gene.

Moreover, imiquimod significantly reduced the mRNA expression of several transcription factors, including Bcl-6, c-Maf, Batf3, Nfatc2 and Stat3, and enhanced the expression of Prdm1 and Stat5b in CD4+T cells.

In contrast, the IL-6 inhibited STAT1 phosphorylation enhanced STAT3 phosphorylation and accelerated cell proliferation in ACHN cells.

Although total STAT3 levels were the same between the hepatic lesions and normal livers, S727-phosphorylated STAT3 was enhanced in adenomas and HCCs, whereas Y705-phosphorylated STAT3 was detected mainly in HCCs.

These findings suggest that targeting STAT3 in these cancers could enhance tumor size and highlight the complexities of the role of STAT3 in tumorigenesis.

Both IL-6 and STAT3 have recently emerged as main regulators of the differentiation and function of Th17 cells, via a positive feedback loop enhancing expression and/or activation of IL-6 itself, IL-17 and STAT3.

STAT3 displayed enhanced tyrosine phosphorylation following treatment with ToxB, and a reputed inhibitor of STAT3, cucurbitacin (JSI-124) , reduced CGN apoptosis.

In contrast Stat1-Y701F NK cells exerted a significantly enhanced cytotoxicity in vitro and in vivo compared to Stat1 -/- NK cells in the absence of detectable transcriptional activity.

In malignant cells that harbor constitutively activated Stat3, CPA-1, CPA-7, and platinum (IV) tetrachloride inhibit cell growth and induce apoptosis in a manner that reflects the attenuation of persistent Stat3 activity.

Although T cells transcribed both IFN-gamma and IL-4 within hours in a Stat4-/Stat6-independent manner, neither T-bet nor GATA-3 was induced optimally without Stat signals, and polarized cytokine expression was not sustained.

Both lineages require signal transducer and activator of transcription (Stat) 4 activation for IFN-gamma induced by interleukin (IL)-12/IL-18 signaling, but only CD4(+) T cells require Stat4 for IFN-gamma induction via the TCR pathway.

To further investigate the role of STAT6 in the development of colitis induced by TCRalpha deficiency, we generated double-deficient mice by crossing TCRalpha(-/-) mice and STAT6(-/-) mice.

By repressing expression of the negative regulator SOCS3 dependent on the transcription factor NF-κB, IL-1 increased the amplitude and duration of phosphorylation of the transcription factor STAT3 induced by TH17-polarizing cytokines, which led to an altered balance in the binding of STAT3 and STAT5 to shared consensus sequences in developing T cells.

Here we have shown that CXCL10/CXCR3 interactions drive effector Th1 polarization via STAT1, STAT4, and STAT5 phosphorylation, while CXCL11/CXCR3 binding induces an immunotolerizing state that is characterized by IL-10(hi) (Tr1) and IL-4(hi) (Th2) cells, mediated via p70 kinase/mTOR in STAT3- and STAT6-dependent pathways.

furthermore, IL-30 induced STAT phosphorylation after 16 h, whereas IL-27 induced STAT phosphorylation within 30 min.

Given the importance of the JAK/STAT pathway in activating microglia and inducing cytokine/chemokine expression, we investigated the therapeutic potential of inhibiting the JAK/STAT pathway using the JAK1/2 inhibitor, AZD1480.

These cells\ dependence on activated STAT3 was verified by showing that cell death is induced by STAT3-specific siRNAs or Stattic.

An analysis of the signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT) pathways revealed that REIC/Dkk-3 induces phosphorylation of STAT 1 and STAT 3.

A specific inhibitor of p38 MAP kinase completely inhibits the serine phosphorylation of STAT1 and STAT3 induced by IL-12 and IL-2 and abrogates the functional synergy between IL-12 and IL-2 without affecting STAT tyrosine phosphorylation.

The STAT proteins utilized by IL-7 were identical to those induced by IL-2 and could be identified as various STAT 5 isoforms.

Mechanistically, IL-22 could activate the JAK/STAT signaling pathway by inducing the phosphorylation of STAT1 and STAT3.

Instead, cTAZ negatively regulates JAK-STAT signaling by inhibiting STAT1/2 nuclear localization and ISG expression, and its expression is induced by type I IFN Thus, cTAZ functions as a modulator of JAK-STAT signaling and may play a role in fine-tuning cellular antiviral response.

IL-4-dependent AID induction was inhibited by a dominant-negative STAT6, indicating that IL-4 induced AID expression via the Janus kinase (JAK)/STAT6 signaling pathway.

IL-15 induced STAT5 DNA binding to the IL-2Ralpha IFN-gamma-activated sequence (GAS) , MyD88 GAS, and c-cis-inducible elements, whereas IL-21 induced STAT3 DNA binding to MyD88 GAS and c-sis-inducible elements.

In support of the specificity of AUH-6-96 for inhibition of JAK/STAT signaling, treatment with AUH-6-96 decreased cancer cell survival by inducing programmed cell death by down-regulating the expression of STAT3 downstream target antiapoptotic genes, such as Bcl-xL.

Activated STAT complexes induced by IL-9 were found to contain STAT1, STAT3, and STAT5 transcription factors.

Gel mobility shift and immunoprecipitation analyses revealed that in addition to activating STAT3 (signal transducer and activator of transcription-3) and STAT5, IL-2 induced tyrosine and serine phosphorylation of STAT1 alpha, which formed IFN-gamma-activated sequence-binding complexes by itself and with STAT3.

IL-2 induced less STAT1 alpha activation and IFN-alpha induced greater STAT5 activation in NK3.

3 cells, IL-2 induced comparable formation of c-fos promoter sis-inducible element IFN-gamma-activated sequence-binding complexes containing STAT3 alone with complexes containing STAT3 and STAT1 alpha, while in preactivated primary NK cells, it preferentially induced complexes containing STAT3 and STAT1 alpha.

However, supershift analyses using the c-fos promoter sis-inducible element probe showed that IL-12 activated STAT4, STAT1 alpha, and STAT3, and induced complexes containing STAT4 only, STAT4 with STAT1 alpha, STAT3 with STAT1 alpha, or STAT1 alpha only in preactivated primary NK cells.

Here we demonstrate that interleukin 2 (IL-2) as well as erythropoietin (EPO) stimulate STAT5 and induce tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT5.

Reporter gene experiments finally showed that transcription from promoters of STAT5 target genes can be specifically induced by challenging cells with IL-4, and that both STAT5a and STAT5b can contribute to IL-4-triggered transcriptional control.

In cultured mouse monocytes, IL-4 or IL-13 activated STAT6 and induced expression of α-smooth muscle actin and extracellular matrix proteins (fibronectin and collagen I) , which was abolished by a JAK3 inhibitor (CP690550) in a dose-dependent manner or blocked in the absence of STAT6.

Consistently, STAT5 bound to GAS sequence in the internal intron of FRA2 and reporter gene assays confirmed IL-2 induced STAT5 binding and transcriptional activation.

Moreover, the phosphorylation of STAT3 induced by T-2-GlcA was higher than that by T-2, whereas the phosphorylation of STAT1 was to the contrary.

Investigation of the mechanisms showed that although heroin use or heroin use plus HCV infection had little impact on the expression of the key positive regulators (IL-12 receptors, STAT-1, 3 , 4 , 5 , JAK-2, and TYK-2) in IL-12 pathway, heroin use or heroin use plus HCV infection induced the expression of suppressor of cytokine signaling protein-3 (SOCS-3) and protein inhibitors of activated STAT-3 (PIAS-3) , two key inhibitors of IL-12 pathway.

Since JAK-STAT pathway is known to induce Nos2, we investigated the role of STAT5B in nitric oxide generation and oxidative stress.

In line, Stat5b-/- leukemic cells induced leukemia with a significantly prolonged disease onset, whereas Stat5a-/- cells rapidly caused a fatal disease superimposable to wild-type cells.

Inactivation of Idgf2 induces the Imd and Jak/Stat pathways, whereas inactivation of Idgf3 induces the Imd, Toll and Jak/Stat pathways.

By using a Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitor, CP-690550, and a STAT1 knockout approach, we found that TZD induced antiviral response independently of the classical JAK-signal transducers and activators of transcription (JAK-STAT) pathway.

Since phosphorylation of tyrosine 701 on STAT-1 is sufficient to induce interferon (IFN)-dependent genes, constitutive activity of this phosphorylation site may lead to the overexpression of IFN-dependent genes, as well as other STAT-1-dependent genes, in HLA-B27 monocyte/macrophages.

Likewise, xanthoplanine prominently attenuated the transcription activity of STAT5 induced by LPS and IFN-γ but did not affect the transcription activity of STAT1 and STAT3.

IL-9 did not activate signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) 1 or STAT5 but induced STAT3 phosphorylation in ISO-induced HF.

Human N-myc interactor (Nmi) protein, which has been shown to interact with signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) proteins including STAT1, is important for the activation of IFN-γ induced STAT1-dependent transcription of many genes responsible for IFN-γ immune responses.

Taken together, our data suggest that the active form of Stat5b induces tolerogenic DC function by modulating IRF4 and IRF8 expression through recruitment of Ezh2 and highlight the fundamental role of Ezh2 in Stat5b-mediated induction of tolerogenic DC function.

Bazedoxifene also inhibited STAT3 phosphorylation induced by IL6 and IL11, but not by OSM or STAT1 phosphorylation induced by INFγ in pancreatic cancer cells, suggesting that Bazedoxifene inhibits the GP130/STAT3 pathway mediated by IL6 and IL11.

Importantly, LLL12 treatment attenuates STAT3 phosphorylation in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells induced by plasma from patients with ARDS, which suggests the feasibility of targeting the STAT3 pathway therapeutically for patients with ALI and ARDS.

There are however a large number of molecules potentially able to modulate NF-κB and STAT1 activity, and the mechanism(s) by which glucolipotoxicity initially induces NF-κB and STAT1 activation is currently poorly defined.

Furthermore, the results showed that IFN-γ activates JAK/STAT and NF-κB signaling pathways to induce Ipr1 expression, and the signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (Stat1) are critical for IFN-γ-induced Ipr1 expression, because overexpression of Stat1 promotes Ipr1 transcription, but knockdown of Stat1 reduced Ipr1 expression.

We used 2 hypothalamic cell lines and analyzed the effects of various hormones on STAT-3-dependent reporter gene activity and observed that IFN-γ, epidermal growth factor (EGF) , and bradykinin (BK) induce similar STAT-3 reporter activation.

JAK1 and STAT1, two important neuregulin proteins, were predicted to be the target genes of micro-125b, and overexpression of micro-125b induced the decrease of phosphorylated JAK1 and STAT1.

FRK associated with STAT1 induced STAT1 nuclear translocation and regulated the expressions of STAT1-related target genes.

While STAT-1 phosphorylation in SLE PBMCs and PBMCs from healthy individuals was similar after IFNalpha stimulation, incubation with IFNgamma induced STAT-1 phosphorylation only in SLE lymphocytes.

Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) induce both suppressors of cytokine signaling 3 (SOCS3) and retinoic acid receptor-related orphan nuclear receptor γ (RORγt) to initiate Th17 cell differentiation which is inhibited by SOCS3, a negative feedback regulator of STAT3.

Here, we demonstrated that turning off Stat3 constitutive activation in different cancer cell types induces senescence, thus revealing their Stat3 addiction.

Both naringenin and flavone also effectively suppressed IL-6-stimulated phosphorylation of STAT3 (Tyr⁷⁰⁵) which led to suppression of IL-6-induction of the atherogenic STAT3 target gene MCP1 (monocyte chemotactic protein-1) , suggesting that their ability to induce SOCS3 gene expression is STAT3-independent.

In the absence of sIL-6R, IL-6 did not induce STAT1/3 phosphorylation, whereas IL-6/sIL-6R and LIF induced STAT1 and STAT3 phosphorylation.

We found that IFN-λ induces activation of Jak/STAT signaling in mouse and human hepatocytes, and the ability of IFN-λ to induce STAT activation correlates with induction of numerous ISGs.

In summary, we show that TWEAK/Fn14 can signal through the JAK-STAT pathway to induce IFNβ, and that the ability of TWEAK to induce tumor cell apoptosis is mediated by JAK-STAT signaling.

Whereas other articles in this issue of the European Journal of Cell Biology focus on STAT activation and its regulation we here aim to summarise our knowledge and some remaining questions on interleukin-6 (IL-6)-induced STAT-independent pathways as well as the cross-talk with the Jak/STAT pathway.

IL-6 neutralization or STAT3 inhibition attenuated PSC-CM induced activation of STAT3 signaling and tumorigenicity.

In contrast, STAT phosphorylation triggered by interferons, IL2 or IL6, showed variations between Treg and Tconv in magnitude or choice of preferential STAT activation but no general Treg signaling defect.

Since many cytokines that activate Jak kinases also lead to the tyrosine phosphorylation and activation of members of the Stat family of transcription factors, the ability of IL-2 to trigger Stat phosphorylation was examined.

Lastly, we demonstrate that IL-9 induces the tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat3 and in this regard differs from IL-4, which triggers tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat6.

TPO-mediated phosphorylation of STAT5 triggers its genome-wide relocation to STAT consensus sites with two distinct transcriptional consequences, loss of a uSTAT5 program that restrains megakaryocytic differentiation and activation of a canonical pSTAT5-driven program which includes regulators of apoptosis and proliferation.

This review will highlight STAT signaling pathways, STAT target genes involved in cancer, evidence for STAT activation in human cancers, and therapeutic strategies to target STAT molecules for anticancer therapy.

Overall, studies have validated Stat3 as a novel target for cancer therapy, and hence provided the rationale for developing small-molecule Stat3 inhibitors.

, miR-21, miR-155 and miR-181b) regulated by STAT3 and potentially targeting genes belonging to the STAT3 signaling pathway.

In this review, we discuss recent advancements in our understanding of the involvement of the JAK/STAT signaling pathway in the pathogenesis of MS/EAE, with a particular focus on therapeutic approaches to target the JAK/STAT pathway.

One the other hand, the STAT3 inhibitor suppressor of cytokine signaling-1 is targeted by the miR cluster, stabilizing the STAT3-induced expression of immunosuppressive factors PD-L1 and IDO.

Like IL-15, these cytokines were found to increase the phosphorylation of STAT5 and Akt and transcription of antiapoptotic mediator bcl-xL Several small-molecule inhibitors targeting the JAK/STAT pathway blocked proliferation elicited by IL-2 and IL-15, but only an inhibitor targeting the PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway blocked proliferation induced by IL-15 as well as the CD4+ T-cell cytokines.

Our analysis thus shows for the first time that HOS can disconnect nuclear, phosphorylated STAT3 from transcriptional outcomes, and emphasizes the importance of assessing STAT3 target gene changes in addition to STAT3 phosphorylation status and localisation.

Cysteamine enhanced the binding of STAT3 to its DNA consensus sequences at 6 , 12 , and 24 \240\h after cysteamine by 1.5-, 1.8-, and 3.5-fold, respectively, and activated the expression of STAT3 target genes such as VEGF, Bcl-xL, Ref-1, and STAT3-induced feedback inhibitor, a suppressor of cytokine signaling 3.

Surprisingly, increases in transcript levels of the direct STAT3 gene target SOCS3 were delayed during the combined LIF + H2O2 treatment, leading us to probe the impact of oxidative stress on STAT3 regulatory events.

STAT3 represents a relevant target for achieving control over human alloresponses, where its suppression facilitates STAT5-mediated iTreg growth and function.

Putative, cell-specific targets of STAT3, a central component of the JAK/STAT pathway, were identified that we propose provide more precise options for assessing the potential for targeting activation of the JAK/STAT pathway as a treatment for human AD.

5 inhibits the JAK/STAT signaling pathway by targeting STAT5 and STAT6, thereby suppressing cell proliferation and promoting cell apoptosis in CRC.

Here we review the recent contributions to our understanding of the role of STAT3 in T cell lymphomagenesis, mechanisms driving STAT3 activation in T cell lymphomas, and current efforts at targeting STAT3 signaling in T cell malignancies.

Assessing STAT signaling mutations as well as screening for aberrant STAT pathway activation may have a role to predict sensitivity to immunotherapy and targeted STAT inhibition.

Stat92E target genes were significantly upregulated in E(Pc)-mutant myeloid cells, indicating that loss of E(Pc) activates JAK/STAT signaling.

In addition, we will discuss how consideration of the noncanonical and stress-related functions of STAT3 cannot be ignored in efforts to target the canonical functions of STAT3, if the goal is to develop drugs that are not only effective but safe.

The role of JAK/STAT activation in cancer has been mostly attributed to direct transcriptional regulation of target genes by phosphorylated STAT (pSTAT) , while the unphosphorylated STAT (uSTAT) is believed to be dormant and reside in the cytoplasm.

Furthermore, targeting STAT3 could be an efficient therapeutic target and understanding the interaction between STAT3 and genistein can help to contribute to a better inhibition process for CRC progression.

STAT3 signaling is more critical for CC cells and is the major target of resveratrol because selective inhibition of STAT3 rather than Wnt or Notch activation commits SiHa and HeLa cells to apoptosis.

Importantly, primary T-PLL cells exhibited constitutive activation of STAT5, and targeted pharmacologic inhibition of STAT5 with pimozide induced apoptosis in primary T-PLL cells.

Here we reviewed the research advances of JAK/STAT signaling pathway in lung cancer, especially the mechanisms of development, metastasis and drug resistance, and the application of inhibitors which targeting JAK/STAT signaling pathway in the treatment of lung cancer.

Here, we discuss how JAK/STAT signals affect ILC development and effector functions in the context of immune responses, highlighting the molecular mechanisms involved in regulation of gene expression as well as the potential of targeting the JAK/STAT pathway in inflammatory pathologies.

These data strengthen the notion that activation of Stat3 plays an essential part in the malignant transformation of Sz and provide further rationale for the therapeutical targeting of Stat3 in Sz.

In this review, we focus on the role of signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) signaling pathways in various renal cell types in healthy kidneys as compared to polycystic kidneys, on the mechanisms of STAT regulation by PC1 and other factors, and on the possibility to target STAT signaling for PKD therapy.

STAT3 has emerged as a potential target in resistant AML, but inhibiting STAT3 function has proven challenging.

Herein, we present the development and optimization of a STAT5B DBD fluorescence polarization (FP) assay, which facilitates rapid screening of small molecules targeting the STAT5B DBD though displacement of a fluorescently labelled oligonucleotide.

Understanding the contribution of chaperones such as HSP27, HSP70, HSP90, and HSP110 to the STAT3/5 signaling pathway has raised the possibility of targeting such HSPs to specifically restrain STAT3/5 oncogenic functions.

The central involvement of STAT3/5 in cancer has made these molecules attractive targets for small-molecule drug development, but currently there are no direct STAT3/5 inhibitors of clinical grade available.

While their biological roles suggest that STAT proteins would be valuable targets for developing therapeutic agents, STAT proteins are notoriously difficult to inhibit using small drug-like molecules, as they do not have a distinct inhibitor binding site.

Many viruses target signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) 1 to antagonise antiviral interferon signalling, but targeting of STAT3, a pleiotropic molecule that mediates signalling by diverse cytokines, is poorly understood.

Therefore, identifying consequences of modulating expression of a given STAT is ultimately critical for determining its potential as a therapeutic target and for defining the mechanisms through which immune-mediated disease variants in STAT genes contribute to disease pathogenesis.

These results distinguish STAT3 cellular localization from other STAT molecules and identify a feature that may be targeted in the clinical intervention of STAT3-dependent neoplasia.

Up-regulation of miR-155 expression by IFN-γ in bile duct cells led to the activation of signal transducers and activators of transcription 1 (Stat1) and inflammatory cytokines through the Janus kinase (Jak)/Stat pathway, whereas targeted inhibition of miR-155 expression by anti-miRNA oligonucleotides significantly decreased the mRNA or protein expression levels of these inflammatory cytokines and Stat1.

Interestingly, treatment with GMG-ITC or SFN had a limited inhibitory effect on IFNα-induced STAT1 and STAT2 activity, indicating that both isothiocyanates differentially target JAK/STAT signaling pathways.

Our results show that STAT3 is necessary for ovarian tumor progression/metastasis and highlight the potential for targeting STAT3 by HO-3867 as a therapeutic strategy for ovarian cancer.

While aberrant STAT3 activation has previously been observed in NSCLC, the scope of its contribution is uncertain and agents that target STAT3 for treatment are not available clinically.

We determined levels of activated STAT3 (STAT3 phosphorylated on Y705, pSTAT3) and the two major isoforms of STAT3 (α and β) in protein extracts of 8 NSCLC cell lines, as well as the effects of targeting STAT3 in vitro and in vivo in NSCLC cells using short hairpin (sh) RNA and two novel small-molecule STAT3 inhibitors, C188-9 and piperlongumine (PL).

To develop efficient STAT3 inhibitors against cancer cells, novel proteomic and metabolic target molecules need to be explored using multi-omics approaches in the context of STAT3 gene inhibition-mediated tumor growth suppression.

Thus, EGF-promoted Ser-727 phosphorylation by ERK-1/2 is not only sufficient to fully activate hypothalamic STAT-3, but, in terms of targeted genes and required cofactors, entails distinct modes of STAT-3 actions compared with IFN-γ-induced Tyr-705 phosphorylation.

Using the non-transformed IL-3-dependent B cell line Ba/F3 and its oncogenic derivative Ba/F3-1,6 expressing constitutively activated STAT5, we show that α-Br-TMC targets the JAK/STAT pathway at multiple levels, inhibiting both JAK2 and STAT5 phosphorylation.

We conclude that the inhibition of canonical STAT1 and STAT3 target gene expression abrogates their intrinsic negative feedback loops, leading to accumulation of phospho-tyrosine-STAT3 and prolonged STAT1 phosphorylation.

However, in the DSS model, the STAT4 transcription in CECs, which are the target cells of activated T cells in the gut, was downregulated by baicalin, suggesting that baicalein and baicalin mediated similar STAT expression in different cell types in autoimmune diseases.

Elevated STAT3 activation is involved in the pathogenesis of dry eye, while targeting STAT3 effectively alleviates BAC-induced ocular surface damage.

Furthermore, PTPN2 overexpression inhibited the high-glucose induced phosphorylation of STAT target genes expression and proliferation in mouse mesangial and tubuloepithelial cells, suggesting that the roles of PTPN2 on STAT activation was independent of glycaemic changes.

Since Stats usually recruit p300/CBP in the general transcription machinery of their target genes and involucrin expression also involves p300/CBP, we hypothesize that Stat6 activated by IL-4 may sequestrate p300/CBP from the involucrin transcription complex, thus suppressing involucrin expression in keratinocytes.

Curcumin\s effects on proliferation, cell cycle, migration, invasion, JAK/STAT3 signaling, STAT3 target gene expression, and STAT3C rescue experiments were determined in murine glioma cell lines in vitro.

The Stat1 floxed allele described in this study is also a unique resource to determine the cellular targets of IFNs and STAT1 action, which should aid our understanding and appreciation of these pathways.

Experimental Design: To evaluate the biologic consequences of specific targeting of STAT3 in neuroblastoma, we assessed the effect of tetracycline (Tet)-inducible STAT3 shRNA and the generation 2.5 antisense oligonucleotide AZD9150 which targets STAT3 in three representative neuroblastoma cell line models (AS, NGP, and IMR32).

Recent discoveries have refined our knowledge of Env conformational states, allowing characterization of the targets of small-molecule HIV-1 entry inhibitors and neutralizing antibodies, and identifying a novel off-pathway conformation (State 2 A).

Here, we studied the role of serine/threonine phosphatases in STAT3 signaling in human antigen-specific CD4(+) T cell lines and cutaneous T cell lymphoma lines expressing a constitutively activated STAT3.

Moreover, CAF inhibition of LTR activation was diminished both in STAT1-deficient cells and in cells expressing a STAT1 dominant negative mutant but was restored when STAT1 was reintroduced into the STAT1-deficient cells.

Given the shortage of models for PTCL, we mimicked graded STAT5A or STAT5B activity by expressing hyperactive Stat5a or STAT5B variants at low or high levels in the hematopoietic system of transgenic mice.

Gel mobility shift and immunoprecipitation/Western analysis showed that STAT5 is rapidly activated by G-CSF in cells expressing the wt G-CSF receptor, in addition to the previously reported STAT3 and STAT1.

JAK2, JAK3, STAT1 and STAT5 were expressed in high amounts, and JAK1, TYK2, STAT2, STAT3, STAT4 and STAT6 to a much lesser extent in the horny cell layer.

STAT1, STAT2, and STAT6 were abundantly expressed in the entire Hassall\s corpuscles, whereas STAT5 was in the outer layer.

The level of attenuation was amplified in cells expressing constitutively active STAT5a, but abrogated in cells expressing DNA-binding-defective STAT5a.

STAT3 was found to be unphosphorylated in the ISRAA‑stimulated hPBMCs, and STAT3 was ubiquitously expressed in unstimulated cells, suggesting that ISRAA has a protein inhibitor of activated STAT (PIAS)-like activity, by functioning as a negative regulator of the effects of STAT3 on the Janus kinase (JAK)/STAT pathway.

SOCS2, a feedback inhibitor of JAK-STAT pathways is expressed in most primitive HSC and is upregulated in response to STAT5-inducing cytokines.

SOCS2, a feedback inhibitor of JAK-STAT pathways, is expressed in most primitive HSC and is upregulated in response to STAT5-inducing cytokines.

The STAT1 gene was ubiquitously expressed in 11 buffalo tissues by real-time PCR, whereas STAT1 was expressed at higher levels in the lymph.

Checking the expression of the whole transcription (STAT) protein family reveals that STAT-6 is highly expressed in comparison with the other STAT proteins.

To understand roles for STAT proteins in leptin action, we also ablated STAT1 or STAT5 from LepRb neurons and expressed a constitutively-active STAT3 (CASTAT3) in LepRb neurons.

Similarly, STAT3 deficiency in a murine model of BRAFV600E-induced PTC led to thyroid tumors that were more proliferative and larger than those tumors expressing STAT3wt.

To induce tumors only in mammary cells lacking STAT1, Stat1 floxed mice were crossed with transgenic mice that express cre recombinase and the neu oncogene under the mouse mammary tumor virus LTR (Stat1fl/fl NIC).

Here, we describe a novel non-canonical role of STAT1 that was unmasked in NK cells expressing a Stat1-Y701F mutant.

We thus investigated the STAT1 interactome using primary NK cells derived from Stat1 ind mice that inducibly express a FLAG-tagged STAT1.

IL-12 and IFN-γ make Naive CD4+ T cells highly express T-bet and STAT4 and differentiate to TH1 cells, while IL-4 make Naive CD4+ T cells highly express STAT6 and GATA3 and differentiated to TH2 cells.

These states serve to demonstrate the functionality of the model and how state-specific results can be translated into a state-specific impact statement using template language.

We analyzed infections caused by MCMV expressing or lacking the STAT2 antagonist pM27 in STAT2-deficient and control mice to evaluate its importance for the host and the virus in vitro and in vivo The inability to counteract STAT2 directly translates into exaggerated IFN susceptibility in vitro and pronounced attenuation in vivo Thus, the antiviral activity mediated by IFNs via STAT2-dependent signaling drove the development of a potent MCMV-encoded STAT2 antagonist which became indispensable for efficient virus replication and spread to organs required for dissemination.

As a mechanism of growth promotion by IL-10, HBZ interacts with STAT1 and STAT3 and modulates the IL-10/JAK/STAT signaling pathway.

These STAT-interacting proteins function to modulate STAT signaling at various steps and mediate the crosstalk of STATs with other cellular signaling pathways.

To test whether forced activation of STAT5 can modulate proliferation of renal cells in\240\vivo, irrespective of the Pkd1 status, we overexpressed growth hormone.

PL\240\inhibited Stat3 nuclear translocation, inhibited ligand-induced and constitutive Stat3 phosphorylation, and modulated expression of multiple Stat3-regulated genes.

Because STAT3 activation through IL-6 has previously been implicated in mediating Teff resistance, we also investigated the surface expression of IL-6R as well as IL-6- and TCR-mediated phosphorylation of STAT3 in T cells from our study subjects.

IFNγ stimulates the tyrosine kinases Jak1 and Jak2, resulting in activation of the Stat1 transcription factor, whereas type 1 IFNs (IFNα/β) activate Jak1 and Tyk2, which mediate their effects through Stat1 and Stat2.

The antiapoptotic response in the absence of STAT1 is predominantly mediated by STAT3, and to a lesser extent by STAT5A/B.

Stat1 is required for suppression of GATA-3, but T-bet induction by IL-27 can also be mediated through a Stat1-independent pathway.

In the present study, we had found that IL-4 enhanced the expression of STAT6 in CD4(+) betabeta T cells isolated from TCRalpha(-/-) mice with colitis, suggesting that the IL-4 signal in the CD4(+) betabeta T cells is mediated by STAT6.

STAT6-deficient CD4(+) betabeta T cells produced IL-4 and intraperitoneal injection of anti-IL-4 monoclonal antibody in the nondiseased TCRalpha(-/-) and STAT6 double-deficient mice prevented the colitis formation, thus indicating that the cells differentiated into the Th2 phenotype have the ability to mediate the development of the colitis in the absence of STAT6.

Surprisingly, contrary to the canonical IL-15-mediated STAT5 signaling pathway in lymphoid cells, IL-15 did not mediate a strong STAT5 or STAT3 activation in DCs.

Here we have shown that CXCL10/CXCR3 interactions drive effector Th1 polarization via STAT1, STAT4, and STAT5 phosphorylation, while CXCL11/CXCR3 binding induces an immunotolerizing state that is characterized by IL-10(hi) (Tr1) and IL-4(hi) (Th2) cells mediated via p70 kinase/mTOR in STAT3- and STAT6-dependent pathways.

To further explore whether JAK/STAT signaling pathway participated in specific immune responses mediated by CTP-HBcAg18-27-Tapasin, we suppressed the JAK/STAT pathway with pharmacological inhibitor (AG490) in vivo.

Both in vitro binding and in vivo functional assays reveal that STAT5 nuclear import is mediated by the importin-α3/β1 system independently of STAT5 activation by tyrosine phosphorylation.

Mechanistic experiments showed that STAT3 pathway partially mediated the effect of FA after which the interaction between STAT3 and importin α5 was enhanced.

The predominance of STAT2-IL-2 in mediating the oncogenic properties of TRIM66 was determined using a rescue assay, wherein overexpression of either STAT2 or IL-2 almost completely abolished the inhibitory effects on cell proliferation, migration and invasion elicited by TRIM66 deficiency in prostate cancer cells.

In Drosophila tumor models, changes in the activities of three pathways, Jun N-terminal Kinase (JNK) , Janus Kinase/Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription (JAK/STAT) , and Hippo mediated by AP-1 factors, Stat92E, and Yorkie, are reported frequently.

We examined the role for the JAK/STAT signaling pathway in acute opioid-induced cardioprotection (OIC) and whether opioid-induced glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3 beta) inhibition is mediated by the JAK/STAT pathway.

We also show that the STAT3 tyrosine phosphorylation is mediated in the malignant T cells by NPM/ALK independently of Jak3 kinase as evidenced by the presence of STAT3 phosphorylation in the NPM/ALK-transfected BaF3 cells that do not express detectable Jak3 and in the NPM/ALK-positive malignant T cells with either Jak3 activity impaired by a pan-Jak or Jak3-selective inhibitor or Jak3 expression abrogated by Jak3 siRNA.

Because the activation of STAT3 is mediated by the action of an upstream Janus kinase (JAK) kinase, usually JAK1 or JAK2, the activation step for STAT3 might itself be a target for therapy in prostate cancer.

These results indicate that STATs are activated through cytokine receptors by two distinct mechanisms, one dependent on receptor tyrosine phosphorylation and the other mediated by the JAK-STAT direct interaction.

These results indicate that Stat6-induced transcription is dependent on phosphorylation events mediated by H7-sensitive kinase(s) but that it also involves serine phosphorylation of Stat6 by an H7-insensitive kinase independent of the IRS pathway.

Furthermore, morin induced SHP1 expression at both the mRNA and protein levels, and silencing of SHP1 abrogated the effect of morin on STAT3 phosphorylation, indicating that morin mediates its effects on STAT3 through SHP1.

In cells activated with IFN gamma, IFN gamma was found to as part of a complex that contained STAT1 alpha and the importin-alpha analog Npi-1, which mediates STAT1 alpha nuclear import.

Existing data have shown the association and coordination between STATs and SMADs in mediating TGF-β functions in hepatic cells, but it is not clear how STATs are activated under these circumstances.

Finally, using a cellular system mimicking constitutive active STAT5-induced cell transformation, we demonstrated that SFN can reverse the survival and growth advantage mediated by oncogenic STAT5 and triggers cell death, therefore providing experimental evidence of a cancer chemopreventive activity of SFN.

Here, we report that GdX (UBL4A) promotes STAT3 dephosphorylation via mediating the interaction between TC45 (the nuclear isoform of TC-PTP) and STAT3 specifically.

Induction of IL-24 expression was accompanied by cell-specific recruitment of STAT6 and STAT4 to multiple sites that we identified within Il24, which mediated STAT-dependent histone modifications across the gene.

Gene profiling and biochemical analyses indicated that BMP10 activates the SMAD-mediated canonical pathway and, unexpectedly, also the signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3)-mediated signaling pathway both in vivo and in vitro Additional findings further supported the notion that BMP10\s cardioprotective function likely is due to its dual activation of SMAD- and STAT3-regulated signaling pathways, promoting cardiomyocyte survival and suppressing cardiac fibrosis.

Our results demonstrate that specific NLSs in STATs mediate direct interactions of STAT dimers with importin alpha, which activates the nuclear import process.

Although IFN-induced nuclear import of STATs is mediated by the importin/Ran transport system, no classic nuclear localization signal (NLS) has been found in STATs.

Intriguingly, STAT1Y701F suppresses the delayed expression of IFN-I-stimulated genes (ISG) observed in Stat1(-/-) cells mediated by the STAT2/IRF9 complex.

Activation of STAT3 mediates tumor cell proliferation, survival, motility, invasion, and angiogenesis, and recent work demonstrates that STAT3 activation suppresses antitumor immune responses and supports tumor-promoting inflammation.

Importantly, silibinin pretreatment inhibited cytokine mixture-induced phosphorylation of STAT3, STAT1, and Erk1/2, NF-κB-DNA binding, and expression of COX2, iNOS, matrix metalloproteinases (MMP) 2 , and MMP9, which was mediated through impairment of STAT3 and STAT1 nuclear localization.

However, galectin-3 significantly induced phosphorylation of STATs in glial cells from IFN-γ-deficient mice, suggesting that IFN-γ does not mediate activation of STATs.

Remarkably, it is shown here that, in mouse embryo fibroblasts lacking STAT3, IL-6 mediates an IFN-gamma-like response including prolonged activation of STAT1, the induction of multiple IFN-gamma-inducible genes, the expression of class II MHC antigens, and an antiviral state.

This result may play a role in localizing STAT1 to its destination in the nucleus, and in releasing importin-alpha5 from STAT1 for recycling back to the cytoplasm.

In many settings, C-terminal truncation of the STAT5 protein leads to inhibition of STAT5 biological activity.

in humans, STAT5B deficiency alone leads to endocrine and immunological problems, while STAT5A deficiency has not been reported.

Mutations in STAT3 or STAT5B lead to activation of the JAK/STAT pathway, and mutations involving SETD2, IN080 and ARID1 are involved in chromatin modification.

The mutant STAT5B protein dominantly interfered with STAT5-driven transcriptional activity leading to global downregulation of STAT5-regulated genes in patient T cells upon IL-2 stimulation.

Surprisingly, increases in transcript levels of the direct STAT3 gene target SOCS3 were delayed during the combined LIF + H2O2 treatment leading us to probe the impact of oxidative stress on STAT3 regulatory events.

The inhibition of STAT3 by a STAT3-decoy ODN leading to cell death, involves the entrapment of activated STAT3 dimers in the cytoplasm.

Mutations in STAT3 and IL21R, but not STAT1 led to a decrease in multiple memory CD8(+) T-cell subsets in vivo, indicating that STAT3 signaling, possibly downstream of IL-21R, regulates the memory cell pool.

Previously we reported that in T cells, RANTES activation of CCR5 results in Stat1 and Stat3 phosphorylation-activation leading to Stat1:1 and Stat1:3 dimers that exhibit DNA binding activity and the transcriptional induction of a Stat-inducible gene, c-fos.

Overexpression of Hipk can phenocopy the effects of overactive JAK/STAT mutations and lead to melanized tumors, and loss of Hipk can suppress the effects of hyperactive JAK/STAT.

Furthermore, we also demonstrated that VGLL4 interacts with STAT3, the core component of the JAK-STAT pathway leading to the inactivation of STAT3 and the inhibition of STAT3 downstream transcription.

These findings suggest that patients with STAT1 GOF mutations have higher levels of total STAT1 protein leading to high levels of pSTAT1 after stimulation, despite rapid STAT1 dephosphorylation and normal degradation.

Inhibition of the Janus kinase (JAK)/signaling transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) pathway by SOCS4 will be reduced, which leads to phosphorylation of STAT3 and JAK.

In COS-7 cells, the JAK/STAT pathway leading from the IL-4 receptor to STAT5-dependent regulation of a reporter gene relied largely on coexpression of JAK3.

These findings suggest that morin suppresses the STAT3 pathway leading to the down-regulation of STAT3-dependent gene expression and chemosensitization of tumor cells.

In recent years, significant effort has been aimed at suppressing STAT3 activation for treatment of cancers, which has led to the development of a wide variety of STAT3 inhibitors, but only a handful have been tested in kidney disease models.

IL-6-induced JAK/STAT activation leads to constitutive activation of STAT3, which has been correlated with enhanced tumor cell growth and resistance to chemotherapy.

Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) , a final \ switch\ that activates gene expression that leads to malignancy, is specifically reduced up to 88 % by these peptides but they do not affect STAT1.

The loss of JAK1 uncouples interleukin-6-class ligands from their downstream effector, STAT3, which leads to the decreased expression of STAT3 target genes that are associated with the acute-phase response, inflammation, and wound healing.

Frequent mutations in cytokine receptor and Janus kinase (JAK)/signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) signaling pathways led us to hypothesize that ETP-ALL is dependent on JAK/STAT signaling.

The results demonstrate cross-talk between nutritionally induced mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 signaling and minimally modified low-density lipoprotein-mediated inflammatory signaling via combinatorial phosphorylation of STAT3 in macrophages leading to increased STAT3 activity on the chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 2 (monocyte chemoattractant protein 1) promoter with proatherogenic consequences.

We conclude that the inhibition of canonical STAT1 and STAT3 target gene expression abrogates their intrinsic negative feedback loops leading to accumulation of phospho-tyrosine-STAT3 and prolonged STAT1 phosphorylation.

More distal signaling events after MHC-I ligation includes activation of the Jak/Stat pathway leading to Stat-3 activation, and activation of the PI3-kinase leading to JNK activation and apoptosis.

shRNA-mediated knockdown of JAK1 or STAT3 in ovarian cancer cells led to reduced tumor growth, decreased peritoneal dissemination, and diminished ascites production, suggesting a critical role of STAT3 in ovarian cancer progression.

The transcription factor STAT3 (signal transducer and activator of transcription 3) was shown to be activated in cyst-lining cells in ADPKD and PKD mouse models and may drive renal cyst growth, but the mechanisms leading to persistent STAT3 activation are unknown.

Taken together, Jak1(S645P+/-) mice showed an increased activation of the IL-6-JAK-STAT pathway leading to a systemic lupus erythematosus-like phenotype and offering a new valuable tool to study the role of the JAK/STAT pathway in disease development.

Prolonged activation of STAT3, however, is strongly implicated in the post-infarction remodeling of the heart which leads to heart failure, where, possibly together with STAT5, it augments activation of the renin-angiotensin system.

Finally, in line with a previous report, we found that streptonigrin inhibits STAT3 phosphorylation raising the possibility that non-canonical STAT function may contribute to the effects of streptonigrin on heterochromatin.

Here, we showed that CD4+ T cells carrying a mutant gp130 that transduces the SHP2/Gab/MAPK pathway but not the STAT3-mediated one failed to develop into Th17, while CD4+ T cells whose mutant gp130 transduces the STAT3 signal only generated Th17, indicating that IL-6 acts directly on T cells through the tyrosine residues of gp130 required for STAT3 activation to promote the development of Th17.

We found that STAT6-/- mice mount a Th1 response, produce high levels of IL-12 and IFN-gamma and develop smaller lesions containing fewer parasites as compared with STAT6+/+ mice.

To investigate interactions between STAT proteins and inhibitors, we herein developed STAT CETSAs and evaluated known STAT3 inhibitors for their ability to engage STAT proteins in biological settings.

We previously reported that the small-molecule Stattic, originally developed as a STAT3-specific inhibitor, also inhibits STAT1 and STAT2 phosphorylation in DC exposed to cytokines or LPS.

However, mice with cardiac myocyte restricted knockout of STAT3, a principal transcription factor activated by LIF develop heart failure with age, and cardiac STAT3 levels are reported to be decreased in heart failure patients.

Mechanistically, the phosphorylation level of ERK1/2 and STAT3 was changed with the zinc level, suggesting that zinc may affect the neural differentiation of iPSCs through ERK-STAT signaling.

PPF decreased the level of phosphorylated STAT3 (p-STAT3) , increased the level of p-STAT5, but did not change the levels of STAT3 and STAT5.

Importantly, STAT3 activity was inhibited by Cucu-B as confirmed by decreased phosphorylation of STAT3 without changing total STAT3 expression.

We uncovered an unexpected effect of the Stat4 N domain in controlling the proximal activation of Stat4 by tyrosine phosphorylation at activated receptor complexes.

Based on previous work indicating a functional relationship between mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) and the nuclear content of latent STAT1, we investigated the mechanism by which mTOR controls STAT1 nuclear import.

Whereas preformed STAT2-IRF9 complexes control basal expression of IFN-induced genes (ISG) , both type I IFN and IFN-γ cause promoter binding of a complete ISGF3 complex containing STAT1, STAT2 and IRF9.

Comparison of (1) basal gene expression of untreated peripheral STAT5A/B-deficient and control T-cells and (2) immediate early gene induction upon in vitro stimulation of either population with IL-2 has revealed differential expression of a broad range of genes potentially contributing to the defects of STAT5A/B deficient T-cells.

This result indicates that WSV181 can suppress JAK/STAT signaling by controlling STAT92E expression.

Moreover, the inability of STAT4(-/-) mice to control the infection was associated with the induction of an antigen-specific Th2-type response characterized by significantly higher levels of Th2-associated immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1) and total IgE as well as interleukin-4 (IL-4) , IL-10, and IL-13 than those in STAT4(+/+) mice, who produced significantly more gamma interferon.

Our data suggest that the failure of STAT1-deficient mice to control initial SARS-CoV replication efficiently in the lung is due to impaired type I and type III IFN signalling, whereas the failure to control subsequent systemic viral spread is due to unrelated defects in STAT1-deficient mice.

Here we show that arginine methylation of STAT1 controls the rate of STAT1 dephosphorylation by modulating its interaction with PIAS1 and the nuclear tyrosine phosphatase TcPTP.

CD11cStat5b-CA transgenic mice expressing a constitutively active (CA) form of Stat5b under the control of a CD11c promoter are protected from diabetes and that Stat5b-CA-expressing DCs are tolerogenic and halt ongoing diabetes in NOD mice.

Thus CRYs link the circadian clock and JAK-STAT signaling through control of STAT5B phosphorylation, which provides the mechanism for circadian rhythms in IGF signaling in vivo.

It also investigated whether modulating the activation of the JAK/STAT pathway after severe controlled cortical impact (CCI-S) with a JAK/STAT inhibitor (WP1066) alters post-traumatic epilepsy development and/or neurological recovery after injury.

Grain-moxibustion has remarkable effect on Lewis lung cancer, by improving survival state, reducing death rate, and controlling growth rate of tumor, which might be associated with its function of inhibiting the activation of IL-6 and STAT 3 in inflammatory microenvironment.

In this study, we have identified STAT-3 as an important transcription factor controlling the induction of expression of immune and inflammatory mediators by poultry dust extracts in airway epithelial cells and in mouse lungs and delineated the cellular pathway for STAT-3 activation.

This article reviews the successes and limitations of JAK-STAT inhibition, surveys the strategies behind emerging therapies, and discusses the challenges that are present in moving beyond JAK-STAT.

One the other hand, the STAT3 inhibitor suppressor of cytokine signaling-1 is targeted by the miR cluster stabilizing the STAT3-induced expression of immunosuppressive factors PD-L1 and IDO.

Immuno-precipitation reveals that RNF168 associates with STAT1 in the nucleus stabilizing STAT1 protein and inhibiting its poly-ubiquitination and degradation.

While potent binding was detected between STAT proteins and peptidic STAT inhibitors, small-molecule inhibitors elicited variable responses, most of which failed to stabilize STAT3 proteins in cells and cell lysates.

In summary, a novel oligonucleotide array-based assay platform was developed and used to study interactions between STAT1 and functional TF binding partners revealing that USF2 and potentially four other new TFs are partners of STAT1 in an IFN-γ stimulated mouse fibroblast cell line.

Analysis of Jak-STAT signaling pathways revealed that the activation of Jak1, STAT3, and STAT5 were induced in tolerant T cells after Ag stimulation in vivo.

Analysis of Stat5 protein isoforms from five of five SzS patients revealed predominant aberrant expression of Stat5(t) in preactivated peripheral blood mononuclear cell.

Consistent with the inappropriate activation of Stat5(t) in SzS patients, real-time PCR revealed that IL-2-induced mRNA expression of the Stat5 target genes, Bcl-2, PIM-1, and CISH were markedly reduced.

The induction of Setdb2 by IFN-I was significantly impaired upon inhibition of the JAK-STAT signaling cascade, and chromatin immunoprecipitation revealed that both STAT1 and interferon regulatory factor 7 bind upstream of the transcription start site to induce expression.

RNA-Seq analysis of CD4(+) T cells from Stat1- and Stat3-deficient mice revealed that both STAT1 and STAT3 are critical for IL-21-mediated gene regulation.

Further analysis using specific inhibitors to STAT3 and p38 MAPK pathways revealed that the STAT3 signaling, but not p38 MAPK signaling, contributed to IFN-γ production in DCs.

Viral pathogenesis studies in WT and STAT1 R274W mixed bone marrow chimeric mice revealed that the presence of WT leukocytes was sufficient to limit infection and that antigen-specific STAT1 R274W CD8+ T cell responses were impaired even in the presence of WT leukocytes.

Deep amplicon sequencing of STAT3 and STAT5B genes revealed a STAT3 R302G mutation with an allele burden of 2.6 %.

In the present study, we addressed the interplay between AMPK and STAT3, and revealed the important role of STAT3 inactivation in the anti-inflammatory function of AMPK in lipopolysaccharide-stressed macrophages and mice.

This inhibition of IRF-1 expression correlated with a defective nuclear translocation of STAT1alpha, and further analyses revealed that the IFN-gamma-induced STAT1alpha association with the nuclear transport adaptor importin-alpha5 was compromised in L.

The disruption of the JAK/STAT signaling lowered the IDO1 activity and reversed the kynurenine-induced pro-immunosuppressive effects, as revealed by the restored proliferation of T-lymphocytes in STAT-silenced chemoresistant cells.

Furthermore, studies using STAT6(-/-) mice revealed that STAT6-mediated signaling was essential for the expansion of these alternatively activated macrophages.

Although the Gbp-1 and Gbp-2 promoters contain binding sites for transcription factors Stat1 and IFN regulatory factor 1 (IRF-1) , deletion analysis revealed that the Stat1 binding site is dispensable for IFN-gamma inducibility of Gbp promoter constructs in transfected fibroblasts.

Viral plaque assays, using Wild Type (WT) and STAT3-/- Murine Embryonic Fibroblasts (MEFs)  revealed that STAT3 is required for the inhibition of Influenza and Vaccinia replication.

Measuring the activity of STAT binding elements and the gfap promoter in the presence of various STAT mutants revealed that transactivation depended on the activity of STAT3 not STAT1.

Unexpectedly, the analysis of STAT3 revealed an induction of STAT3 Y705 phosphorylation by MCMV.

Further, we found STAT1/3 bound to the Pin1 promoter revealing that activation of STAT1/3 was responsible for the increased expression of Pin1 under angiotensin II stimulation.

Because STAT3 is crucial for physiologic leptin action, we used TRAP-seq to examine gene expression in LepRb neurons of mice ablated for Stat3 in LepRb neurons (Stat3LepRbKO mice)  revealing the STAT3-dependent transcriptional targets of leptin.

CIITA knockdown and STAT1 inhibition experiments revealed that HLA-DRB1 expression in lupus CD8+ T cells is dependent on CIITA and STAT1 signalling.

Overexpression of RhoH on the other hand caused an induction of STAT1 activity and western blot analysis revealed that activated STAT1 is phosphorylated on Tyr701.

Finally, the impact of pPeOp on three key nodes of the Janus kinase (JAK)-signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) pathway were investigated and it was revealed that expression levels of JAK1, JAK2 and STAT3 were significantly downregulated following treatment.

The activation of the JAK/STAT pathway promoted phosphorylation of STAT3 in TGZ-treated mice.

Upon ligand binding, a receptor proximal complex consisting of IFN-α and-β receptors 1 and 2 (IFNAR1, IFNAR2, respectively) , tyrosine kinase 2 (Tyk2) , Jak1, and STAT2 are assembled and promote the phosphorylation of STAT1 and STAT2.

In addition, it has been shown that tissue-specific loss of STAT3 or STAT5 in mice promotes cancer growth in certain tissues, and thus these STAT proteins can act as tumor suppressors.

Results showed that CSFV infection and viral NS4A protein decreased the protein level of STAT1, and MG132 promoted the accumulation of STAT1 in the nucleus of cells adjacent to the CSFV-infected cells.

Expression of JAK1 mutants alone failed to trigger STAT activation, but co-expression of the IL-9Ralpha chain promoted JAK1 mutant phosphorylation and STAT activation.

With JAK1, STAT1 promotes proliferation, while STAT3 has a dual effect on proliferation and differentiation.

The SH2 domain of STATs (signal transducers and activators of transcription) binds to the receptor phosphotyrosines thereby promoting STAT phosphorylation by the Janus kinases and consequent activation.

In this issue of Cancer Discovery, Biffi and colleagues report that IL1 signaling cascades resulted in JAK/STAT activation and promoted an inflammatory cancer-associated fibroblast (iCAF) state, which contributed to the establishment of distinct fibroblast niches in the pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) microenvironment to support the growth of PDAC cells.

The increased viral load and suppressed transcript levels of JAK/STAT pathway components indicate that WSV181 can promote viral proliferation by inhibiting the JAK/STAT pathway.

Here, we identify an IL1-induced signaling cascade that leads to JAK/STAT activation and promotes an inflammatory CAF state, suggesting multiple strategies to target these cells in vivo.

In line with these changes, maternal exposure to FO promoted the expression of long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) in p53 and apoptosis signaling pathways and inhibited that in NF-κB and Jak-STAT signaling pathways, while FSO promoted the expression of lncRNA in p53 signaling pathways and inhibited that in NF-κB, Jak-STAT and MAPK signaling pathways.

Moreover, H19 activated JAK/STAT signaling by promoting the expression of Stat3 and c-Myc, which is thought to be involved in astrocyte activation.

Mechanistically, IFN-γ-induced STAT1 expression and activation were involved in the regulation of trophoblast proliferation and apoptosis by SPRY4, and IFN-γ promoted SPRY4 expression and STAT1 phosphorylation through PI3K/AKT pathway.

While STAT antagonism can suppress immune pathways, many viruses promote activation of specific STATs to support viral gene expression and/or produce cellular conditions conducive to infection.

These results indicate that STAT1 is covalently modified by SUMO-1 in cytokine signaling and that PIAS proteins promote SUMO-1 conjugation to STAT1.

Moreover, the mutations alone cannot explain the JAK1/STAT3 dependency, given that wild-type JAK1 or STAT3 was sufficient to promote cell survival in the cells that had either JAK1or STAT3 mutations.

STAT1 can inhibit cell growth and promote apoptosis while STAT3 inhibits apoptosis.

Here we report that phosphorylation of STAT1 S727 promotes the proliferation of AML cells with JAK-STAT pathway activation.

Necrotic-S stimulation activated the JAK/STAT pathway and promoted the nuclear translocation of c-Fos and NF-κB p65, and silencing of STAT1 or c-Fos suppressed Necrotic-S-induced DC maturation and inflammatory cytokine production.

Blocking either the LIF signaling pathway with neutralizing antibodies or the downstream Janus kinase (JAK)/STAT pathway with JAK2 inhibitor AG490 resulted in a dose-dependent inhibition of cell proliferation, suggesting that NSC-secreted molecules promote auditory cell survival via the regulatory LIF/JAK/STAT signaling pathway.

We have recently found several benzotriazole and benzotriazine analogues that have the ability to reactivate latent HIV by inhibiting signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 (STAT5) SUMOylation and promoting STAT5 binding to the HIV long terminal repeat and increasing its transcriptional activity.

We previously identified the interaction of TgROP18 and host cell immune-related receptor protein IL20RB, and observed the activation of STAT3 in human keratinocytes (HaCaT) cells infected by the rop16 knockout RH strain, though TgROP16 is regarded as being responsible for host STAT3 activation during T.

To determine activation status of the IL-2R-associated (Jak/STAT) pathway in the HTLV-I infected cells, we examined tyrosine phosphorylation of Jak3, STAT3, and STAT5 in several HTLV-I(+) T-cell lines and in uncultured leukemic T cells isolated from patients with adult T-cell lymphoma/leukemia (ATLL).

Tyr-705-phosphorylated STAT3 was localized mainly in the nucleus in mock infected cells, whereas STAT3 disappeared from the nucleus in virus-infected cells.

This defect in transcription occurred despite normal activation of STAT1 in infected macrophages: there was no decrease in STAT1 tyrosine or serine phosphorylation, nuclear translocation, or binding of a minimal IFN-gamma response sequence.

Here we show that the highly homologous TGF-β receptor-regulated Smads (R-Smads) : Smad2 and Smad3 oppositely modify STAT3-induced transcription of IL-17A and retinoic acid receptor-related orphan nuclear receptor, RORγt encoded by Rorc, by acting as a co-activator and co-repressor of STAT3, respectively.

These findings demonstrate that rotavirus probably employs a novel strategy to inhibit IFN-induced STAT signalling, which acts after STAT activation and binding to the nuclear import machinery.

While STAT1 is believed to play an important role in growth arrest and apoptosis, and to act as a tumor suppressor, STAT3 and 5 are involved in promoting cell cycle progression, cellular transformation, and preventing apoptosis.

Evidence showed that STAT protein phosphorylation (p-STAT) by activated JAKs is permissive for p-STAT to act as transcription factors by binding to STAT-responsive gene promoter sequences.

Although a member of the STAT family, STAT3 has been reported to be constitutively activated in several v-Src-transformed cells, and it still remains unknown whether Jak molecules, which act upstream of STATs, are involved in the v-Src-induced activation mechanism of STAT3.

As STAT3 acts as an activator of transcription in the nucleus, these results suggest that STAT3 lacks its activity on transcription in SARS-CoV-infected Vero E6 cells.

SpJAK significantly enhanced the activity of the promoter of the WSSV wsv069 gene that was activated significantly by SpSTAT by acting on the STAT-binding DNA motif.

Members of the protein inhibitor of activated signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) family (PIAS family) of proteins act as negative regulators of STATs in cytokine signaling.

BRG1 is recruited after activator binding at several other inducible loci, and STAT family members are known to bind BRG1, suggesting that BRG1 might act downstream of STAT1.

However, Stat5B KO macrophages responded normally to FcγR signaling, indicating a lineage-restricted role for Stat5B.

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 28
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 29
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 30
'CD4',bind,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 31
'CD8',bind,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 32
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT';'MHC',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

----> event: 'MHC',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 6

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 33
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT';'MHC',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

----> event: 'MHC',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 7

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 34
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT';'importin',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

----> event: 'importin',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 8

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 35
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT';'importin',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

----> event: 'importin',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 9

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 36
'CD4',bind,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT';'CD4',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 10

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 37
'CD4',bind,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT';'CD4',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 11

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 38
'CD8',bind,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT';'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 12

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 39
'CD8',bind,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT';'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 13

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 40
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

Studies from the most affected countries, including China, United States and Italy, seem to indicate that prevalence of diabetes among patients affected by COVID-19 is not higher than that observed in the general population, thus suggesting that diabetes is not a risk factor for SARS-CoV-2 infection.

Next, we examined IFN competent Calu3 2 B4 cells finding SARS-CoV-2 had reduced viral replication relative to SARS-CoV and induced STAT1 phosphorylation late during infection.

Statins, with their immunomodulatory, anti-inflammatory, anti-thrombotic, and anti-oxidant properties, have the potential to reduce severity of lung injury in, and mortality from, severe acute respiratory syndrome-coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV2) infections.

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 41
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 42
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 43
'CD4',bind,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 44
'CD8',bind,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 45
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV';'MHC',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

----> event: 'MHC',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

The gamma interferon (IFN-gamma) release Elispot assay revealed that only SARS-CoV-specific peptides S1203 and S978 induced a high frequency of IFN-gamma-secreting T-cell response in HLA-A2(+) donors who had fully recovered from SARS-CoV infection.

Aiming at better understanding the biology of the infection and the immune response against the virus in the Brazilian population, we analysed SARS-CoV-2 protein S peptides in order to identify epitopes able to elicit an immune response mediated by the most frequent MHC-I alleles using in silico methods.

Also, exposure to infectious SARS-CoV led to the phenotypic and functional maturation of DC, with regard to MHC class II and costimulatory molecule expression, T cell-stimulatory capacity, and cytokine production, respectively.

such a T-cell epitope-specific response was not observed in HLA-A2(+) healthy donors or in HLA-A2(-) donors who had been infected with SARS-CoV after full recovery.

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 46
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV';'MHC',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

----> event: 'MHC',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

While a subset of epitopes from earlier betacoronaviruses, such as SARS-CoV (SARS) , have been validated experimentally, validation systems are often biased toward specific HLA haplotypes (notably HLA-A,02:01) that only account for a fraction of the haplotypes of individuals affected by the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic.

Genetic variability across the three major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I genes (human leukocyte antigen A [ HLA-A],-B, and-C genes) may affect susceptibility to and severity of the disease caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) , the virus responsible for coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19).

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 47
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV';'ORF6',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

----> event: 'ORF6',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

One protein, the product of SARS-CoV ORF6, converted a sublethal infection to a uniformly lethal encephalitis and enhanced virus growth in tissue culture cells, indicating that SARS-CoV proteins function in the context of a heterologous coronavirus infection.

The overexpression of NPIPB3 restored the IFN-β responses in SARS-CoV ORF6 expressing cells, indicating that the interaction of SARS CoV ORF6 and NPIPB3 reduced Type I IFN antagonism by SARS-CoV ORF6.

Finally, colocalization experiments were performed in SARS-CoV infected Vero E6 mammalian cells to confirm the nsp8-ORF6 interaction.

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 48
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV';'ORF6',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

----> event: 'ORF6',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

The overexpression of NPIPB3 restored the IFN-β responses in SARS-CoV ORF6 expressing cells, indicating that the interaction of SARS CoV ORF6 and NPIPB3 reduced Type I IFN antagonism by SARS-CoV ORF6.

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 49
'CD4',bind,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

Further study indicated that IFN-gamma+ and IL-4+ populations in CD4+ T cells increased upon co-cultivation with DCs pre-exposed with BVLPs or SARS-CoV VLPs.

However, depletion of CD4(+) T cells resulted in an enhanced immune-mediated interstitial pneumonitis and delayed clearance of SARS-CoV from the lungs, which was associated with reduced neutralizing antibody and cytokine production and reduced pulmonary recruitment of lymphocytes.

As proof-of-concept, we show that CD4 + T cells in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) of patients with COVID-19 are Th1-skewed and that VDR is among the top regulators of genes induced by SARS-CoV2.

Importantly, using this system, we functionally identified the CD4+ and CD8+ peptide epitopes targeted during SARS-CoV-2 infection in H2b restricted mice.

Our observation reveals the BASCs (Sca-1+ CD34+ CD45- Pecam-) , a subset of Oct-4+ ACE2+ epithelial colony cells at the broncho-alveolar duct junction, to be the prime target cells of SARS-CoV infection.

Stimulating peripheral blood mononuclear cells from COVID-19 convalescent patients with overlapping peptides from severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) led to the clonal expansion of SARS-CoV-2-specific CD8+ and CD4+ T cells in vitro, with CD4+ T cells being robust.

These findings imply the importance of CD4+ T cells (but not CD8+ and CD3+ T cells) in SARS-CoV-2 infection associated pneumonia and indicate that CD4+ T cells might be important for the control of SARS-CoV-2.

A CD47 mimic that acts as an essential virulence factor is encoded by all poxviruses, but CD47 expression on infected cells was found to be upregulated even by pathogens, including severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) , that encode no mimic.

In patients with severe disease compared to mild disease, we found increased proportions of cytotoxic follicular helper (T FH) cells and cytotoxic T helper cells (CD4-CTLs) responding to SARS-CoV-2, and reduced proportion of SARS-CoV-2 reactive regulatory T cells.

In patients with severe disease compared to mild disease, we found increased proportions of cytotoxic follicular helper (TFH) cells and cytotoxic T helper cells (CD4-CTLs) responding to SARS-CoV-2, and reduced proportion of SARS-CoV-2 reactive regulatory T cells.

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 50
'CD4',bind,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

Following compassionate care treatment with the CCR5 blocking antibody leronlimab, we observed complete CCR5 receptor occupancy on macrophage and T cells, rapid reduction of plasma IL-6, restoration of the CD4/CD8 ratio, and a significant decrease in SARS-CoV-2 plasma viremia.

In patients with severe disease compared to mild disease, we found increased proportions of cytotoxic follicular helper (T FH) cells and cytotoxic T helper cells (CD4-CTLs) responding to SARS-CoV-2, and reduced proportion of SARS-CoV-2 reactive regulatory T cells.

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 51
'CD8',bind,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

As we understand more about the immune response to SARS-CoV-2 it appears that a functional CTL (CD8+) response is required to clear the infection and COVID-19 severity is increased as the CD8+ response becomes somehow diminished or exhausted.

In the present study, we aimed to evaluate the immune responses of peptide-specific CD8(+) T cells induced by HLA-A,0201 restricted severe acute respiratory syndrome-associated coronavirus (SARS-CoV) S epitopes plus CpG oligodeoxynucleotide (CpG ODN) , PolyI:C and R848 as adjuvants.

Importantly, using this system, we functionally identified the CD4+ and CD8+ peptide epitopes targeted during SARS-CoV-2 infection in H2b restricted mice.

Two CD8(+) T cell responses targeting the SARS-CoV membrane (M) and nucleocapsid (N) proteins were characterized by determining their HLA restriction and minimal T cell epitope regions.

In this study, we assessed the ability of virus-specific memory CD8 T cells to mediate protection against infection in the absence of SARS-CoV-specific memory CD4 T or B cells.

However, the role of SARS-CoV-specific memory CD8 T cells in mediating protection after SARS-CoV challenge has not been previously investigated.

Stimulating peripheral blood mononuclear cells from COVID-19 convalescent patients with overlapping peptides from severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) led to the clonal expansion of SARS-CoV-2-specific CD8+ and CD4+ T cells in vitro, with CD4+ T cells being robust.

These findings imply the importance of CD4+ T cells (but not CD8+ and CD3+ T cells) in SARS-CoV-2 infection associated pneumonia and indicate that CD4+ T cells might be important for the control of SARS-CoV-2.

The molecular properties of CD8 + T cells that respond to SARS-CoV-2 infection are not fully known.

Overall, our single-cell analysis revealed substantial diversity in the nature of CD8 + T cells responding to SARS-CoV-2.

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 52
'CD8',bind,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

SARS-CoV seemed to elicit effective humoral immunity but inhibited cellular immunity, especially CD8+ memory T lymphocytes over time.

Following compassionate care treatment with the CCR5 blocking antibody leronlimab, we observed complete CCR5 receptor occupancy on macrophage and T cells, rapid reduction of plasma IL-6, restoration of the CD4/CD8 ratio, and a significant decrease in SARS-CoV-2 plasma viremia.

Further, the proportions of CD4+ T and CD8+ T lymphocytes were strongly reduced in patients with severe SARS-CoV-2 infection.

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 53
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

These findings demonstrated that SARS-CoV pathogenesis is regulated by a STAT1 dependent but type I, II and III interferon receptor independent, mechanism.

We propose that the control of AA macrophages by STAT1 is critical to regulating immune pathologies and for protection from long-term progression to fibrotic lung disease in a mouse model of SARS-CoV infection.

The results showed that SARS-CoV PLpro stimulated TGF-β1-dependent expression of Type I collagen via activating STAT6 pathway.

No evidence suggests stopping angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin-renin-blockers or statins, even it has been suggested that they may increase the expression of Angiotensin-Converting-Enzyme-2 (ACE2) receptor, which is used by " Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) to penetrate into the cells.

Next, we examined IFN competent Calu3 2 B4 cells finding SARS-CoV-2 had reduced viral replication relative to SARS-CoV and induced STAT1 phosphorylation late during infection.

The presence of pan JAK-STAT components in mammary alveolar cells and in Type II Pneumocytes combined with the autoregulation of both STAT1 and STAT5 suggests a prominent role of cytokine signaling pathways in cells targeted by SARS-CoV-2.

This study performed the first state-of-art single cell atlas of adult human heart, and revealed that pericytes with high expression of ACE2 might act as the target cardiac cell of SARS-CoV-2.

The global pandemic of Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) , caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2)  has led to the death of more than 675 , 0 worldwide and over 150 , 0 in the United States alone.

The global pandemic of Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) , caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) , has led to the death of more than 675 , 0 worldwide and over 150 , 0 in the United States alone.

In lieu of the fact that many older patients with hypertension or other CVDs are routinely treated with RAAS blockers and statins, new clinical concerns have developed regarding whether these patients are at greater risk for SARS-CoV-2 infection, whether RAAS and statin therapy should be discontinued, and the potential consequences of RAAS blockade to COVID-19-related pathologies such as acute and chronic respiratory disease.

The source of her tuberculous infection was not identified, and further investigations by the local health department were not possible because of the State of Michigan-mandated lockdown for control of SARS-CoV-2 spread.

Our data suggest that the failure of STAT1-deficient mice to control initial SARS-CoV replication efficiently in the lung is due to impaired type I and type III IFN signalling, whereas the failure to control subsequent systemic viral spread is due to unrelated defects in STAT1-deficient mice.

We have analyzed 453 SARS-CoV-2 genomes collected between 20 February and 15 March 2020 from infected patients in Washington State, USA.

As STAT3 acts as an activator of transcription in the nucleus, these results suggest that STAT3 lacks its activity on transcription in SARS-CoV-infected Vero E6 cells.

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 54
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 55
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 56
'CD4',bind,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 57
'CD8',bind,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 58
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV';'MHC',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

----> event: 'MHC',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 45

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 59
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV';'MHC',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

----> event: 'MHC',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 46

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 60
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV';'ORF6',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

----> event: 'ORF6',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 47

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 61
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV';'ORF6',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

----> event: 'ORF6',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 48

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 62
'CD4',bind,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 63
'CD4',bind,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 64
'CD8',bind,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 65
'CD8',bind,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 66
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

In addition, confocal imaging and Western blotting assays revealed that the increases in STAT-1 nuclear translocation and phosphorylation occurred in the transfected cells expressing both genes of ORF6 and NPIPB3, but not in the ORF6-expressing cells in response to IFN-β.

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 67
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 68
'CD4',bind,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 69
'CD8',bind,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 70
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6';'ORF6',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

----> event: 'ORF6',regulate,'ORF6'

However, for most ORFs, ocular strains presented lower expression than genital or lymphogranuloma venereum (LGV) strains, and ORF6/pgp4 (transcriptional regulator of virulence associated genes) presented the highest mean expression among strains, followed by the virulence factor ORF5/pgp3 (also regulated by ORF6/pgp4).

Consistent with the observed increase in the biochemical interaction between 55 K and Orf3 in the absence of Orf6, the 55 K association with Orf3 in ND10 was also found to increase in the absence of Orf6.

Citrinin production was significantly greater (3.6-fold) in the Δorf6 strain than in the wild-type Monascus purpureus YY-1, and RT-PCR analysis further revealed increased expression of numerous genes of the citrinin biosynthesis gene cluster in Δorf6.

1 of ORF6 and ORF7, respectively induced the highest IFN-gamma responses, suggesting that these peptides represented the immunodominant Th1 cell epitopes of RD1 ORF6 and ORF7 in the patients tested.

The overexpression of NPIPB3 restored the IFN-β responses in SARS-CoV ORF6 expressing cells, indicating that the interaction of SARS CoV ORF6 and NPIPB3 reduced Type I IFN antagonism by SARS-CoV ORF6.

To investigate the role of ActVA-Orf6 in this oxidation, we have expressed the actVA-Orf6 gene in Escherichia coli and purified and characterized the recombinant protein.

In this study, we cloned the KSHV ORF6 gene expressed the full length ORF6 protein in insect cells and purified it to homogeneity.

In order to investigate the characterization of in vitro co-expressed GP5 and M proteins of porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) , eukaryotic expression plasmids pCI-ORF5 (expressing GP5 protein alone) , pCI-ORF6 (expressing M protein alone) , and pCI-ORF5/ORF6 (co-expressing GP5 and M proteins) were constructed.

L-ORF6 caused mild necrotic symptoms in Nicotiana benthamiana when expressed from TRV, whereas U1-ORF6 caused severe symptoms including death of the plant apex.

Out of the various recombinants carrying the relevant ketoreductases, the set of gra-ORF5 and-ORF6 under translational coupling (on pIK191) led to the most efficient production of (R)-DNPA as a single product, implying a possible unique cooperative function whereby gra-ORF6 might encode a " guiding" protein to control the regio- and stereochemical course of reduction at C-3 catalyzed by the gra-ORF5 protein.

First, we investigated whether proteins were produced from ORF5 and ORF6 by in vitro translation of appropriate viral transcripts, searched for antibodies against the putative proteins in the sera of animals infected with wild-type virus, and looked for an antisense WHV transcript, necessary for expression of a protein from ORF6, in the livers of acutely or chronically infected woodchucks.

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 71
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6';'ORF6',inhibit,'ORF6'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

----> event: 'ORF6',inhibit,'ORF6'

Further analyses suggest that ORF6 inhibits both type I IFN production and downstream signaling, and that the C-terminus region of ORF6 is critical for its antagonistic effect.

The overexpression of NPIPB3 restored the IFN-β responses in SARS-CoV ORF6 expressing cells, indicating that the interaction of SARS CoV ORF6 and NPIPB3 reduced Type I IFN antagonism by SARS-CoV ORF6.

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 72
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

Antigen recognition by alloreactive MHC class I-restricted CD4(+) T cells was inhibited by removing peptides bound to HLA molecules on T2 cells suggesting that the alloreactive CD4(+) T cells recognize peptides that bind in a TAP-independent manner to HLA-A2 molecules.

Monomeric MHC class I binding can antagonize the stimulation triggered by soluble oligomers, a phenomenon also observed for CD4 T cells.

The protein p53 has been shown to be an efficient tumour antigen in both murine and human cancer vaccine studies and cancer vaccines targeting p53 based on major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I binding p53-derived peptides that induce cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) without p53-specific CD4(+) T-cell help have been tested by several research groups including ours.

Seven CYP2D6 peptides with high HLA-A2 binding affinity colocalizing with known B cell or CD4 T cell epitopes were selected.

Immunization of transgenic HLA-A,02:01/HLA-DRB1,01:01 mice with four of these double binding peptides gave rise to both HLA class I and class II restricted responses by CD8 and CD4 T cells, respectively, whereas four of the double binding peptides did result in HLA-A,02:01 restricted responses only.

Among 94 peptides tested, the three T helper epitope long peptides and their inner CTL epitope short peptides with HLA-A2 binding motifs were frequently recognized by IgG of cancer patients, and efficiently induced both CD4(+) IFN-γ(+) and CD8(+) IFN-γ(+) T lymphocytes.

The overlapping CD8+ and CD4+ T-cell epitopes were bound with most conserved HLA-C,12:03 and HLA-DRB1,01:01, respectively with the high binding affinity (kcal/mol).

HLA molecules of the MHC class II (MHCII) bind and present pathogen-derived peptides for CD4 T cell activation.

In summary, our yeast-display-based platform yields high-quality MHC-II-binding peptide datasets that can be used to improve the accuracy of MHC-II binding prediction algorithms, and potentially enhance our understanding of CD4+ T cell recognition.

While downmodulation of cell surface MHC-I depends on M20, two EP repeats are the minimal binding site for the NAKC, and residues 32 to 39 mediate antagonism of the host cell restriction factor SERINC5 as well as downmodulation of cell surface CD4.

We conducted immunofluorescence studies of expression of MHCII, the binding partner of CD4, on patient liver biopsies of AH, NASH, and normal controls.

Activation of CD4+ T cells through interactions with peptides bound to Major Histocompatibility Complex Class II (MHC-II) molecules is a crucial step in clearance of most pathogens.

In this study, MHC binding assay was firstly used to predict CD4(+) T-cell epitopes on S.

Binding register prediction is concerned with determining the minimal core region of nine residues directly in contact with the MHC binding cleft, a crucial piece of information both for the identification and design of CD4(+) T cell antigens.

Two major types of T cells, CD4(+) and CD8(+) , that use the same genetic elements and process to generate a functional TCR differ in their recognition of peptide bound to MHC class II and I, respectively.

In order to address this problem, we have identified a novel murine anti-CD52 antibody which has been humanized using a process that avoids the inclusion within the variable domains of non-human germline MHC class II binding peptides and known CD4+ T cell epitopes, thus reducing its potential for immunogenicity in the clinic.

Analysis of the T-cell receptor (TCR) repertoire of innate CD4(+) T cells selected by major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II-dependent thymocyte-thymocyte (T-T) interaction (T-T CD4(+) T cells) is essential for predicting the characteristics of the antigens that bind to these T cells and for distinguishing T-T CD4(+) T cells from other types of innate T cells.

MHC class II (MHC-II) molecules function by binding peptides derived from either self or foreign proteins and expressing these peptides on the surface of antigen presenting cells (APCs) for recognition by CD4 T cells.

At the cellular level, sMHCII proteins compete with membrane MHCII for T-cell receptor binding on CD4(+) T cells.

Cell clusters within these FTAs can be pulsed with major histocompatibility (MHC) class-I and MHC class-II binding peptides and thereby act as target cells for CD8(+) and CD4(+) T cells, respectively.

We describe here an MHC class II binding peptide from the tumor protein p53, which possesses an acetylated lysine at position 120 (p53110-124/AcK120) that is effective in eliciting CD4(+) T cell responses specific for the acetylated peptide.

MHC class II (MHC-II) molecules are present on antigen presenting cells (APCs) and these molecules function by binding antigenic peptides and presenting these peptides to antigen-specific CD4(+) T cells.

However, the engineered junction results in non-native peptide sequences with the potential to elicit immune responses via major histocompatibility complex class-II (MHC-II)-binding and CD4+ T cell activation.

Upon recognition of foreign peptides expressed on the MHC-II binding groove, CD4+ T cells mount an immune response against invading pathogens.

Major Histocompatibility Complex class II (MHC-II) molecules bind peptides and present them to receptors on CD4+ T cells as part of the immune system\s surveillance of pathogens and malignancy.

CD4+ T cells recognize MHC 2 bound antigens, while CD8+ T cells recognize MHC 1 bound antigens.

CD4+ T lymphocytes, which orchestrate immune responses, receive a cognitive signal when clonally distributed receptors are occupied by peptides bound to major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II molecules on antigen-presenting cells.

Anergy of non-infected CD4 cells, resulting in cytokine dysregulation may be promoted by impairing the CD4-MHC interaction during CD4 cell activation either directly through the SLWDQ pentapeptide identity with the CD4 molecule and the CD4 binding region or through a gp120-induced autoimmune reaction to CD4.

The HIV binding region appears to involve a restricted area of the larger class II MHC binding site on CD4.

Strategies of drug design aimed at interrupting CD4-HIV interaction will need to consider the extensive overlap between class II MHC and HIV gp120 binding surfaces in this region of CD4.

Since MHC class II expression did not influence the degree of conjugate formation by naive or memory CD4 T cells with B cells, CD4-MHC class II interaction does not appear to be involved in binding itself, but may down-regulate the adhesion of memory but not naive CD4 T cells.

It is thought therefore that at least part of the gp160 inhibitory activity is not secondary to CD4 modulation but may rely either upon steric hindrance of CD4-MHC class II interaction, of CD4/CD3 TCR complex interaction, or upon negative signaling through binding to CD4.

We have studied a series of mutants in the region of amino acids 42-49 of CD4 for their ability to bind gp120, to interact with class II MHC, to enhance T-cell activation, and to bind a panel of anti-CD4 antibodies.

Investigating the biological role of the much lower affinity of this interaction than those of other cell-cell recognition molecules will require CD4 mutants with enhanced binding to MHC class II for testing in models of T-cell development.

However, whether introduction of such mutations into CD4 causes decreased binding to MHC and loss of function is yet to be determined.

Modeling of the complex of the TCR and domain-swapped CD4 dimer bound to class II MHC and Ag supports the domain-swapped dimer as the immune coreceptor.

Staining with peptide-MHC tetramers demonstrated the expansion of CD8 T cells that recognize both the native and altered epitopes and possess an effector cytotoxic T lymphocyte phenotype (CD45RA(+) CD27(-) CCR7(-)).

Finally, using CD4(+) PHA blasts transduced with mRNA of a cancer-testis antigen MAGE-A4, we successfully generated specific CTL clones that recognized a novel HLA-B,4002 restricted epitope, MAGE-A4(223-231).

CD4 and CD8 T-cell lines recognized PSA in the context of HLA-DRbeta1,1501 and HLA-B,0702, respectively.

MHC class I recognizing and activating natural killer cell receptors on the surface of CD4+CD28- T cells may be involved in a HLA-B27 mediated co-stimulation of these proinflammatory and cytotoxic cells.

MHC-independent αβTCRs (TCRs) recognize conformational epitopes on native self-proteins and arise in mice lacking both MHC and CD4/CD8 coreceptor proteins.

Most importantly, the acetylated peptide-reactive CD4 HTLs recognized the corresponding naturally processed posttranslational modified epitope presented by either dendritic cells loaded with tumor cell lysates or directly on tumors expressing p53 and the restricting MHC class II molecules.

We found that CD4+ TILs from one patient recognized mutated C-terminal binding protein 1 in an MHC class II-restricted manner.

We have described previously the generation of seven HIV-SF2 Nef-specific, CD4+ T-cell clones, identification of epitopes within which are recognized by these clones, and the MHC alleles that restrict their responses.

CD4+ and CD8+ CTL were examined to establish whether the same HIV-1 protein (Env, Gag or Pol) was recognized by both CD4+ and CD8+ CTL with MHC antigen restriction.

Synthetic peptides representing a defined CD4+ human T cell epitope in gp120 were used to survey gp120 molecules from various HIV-1 strains for the capacity to be recognized in the context of a single human MHC molecule, DR4.

Additionally, these MHC-II/peptide complexes that interact with T-cell receptors (TCR) of pathogenic CD4+ T cells are compatible with a different number of assays like Intracelullar Cytokine Staining (ICS) , and Carboxyfluorescein succinimidyl ester (CFSE) making it a robust technology to study the functionality of allergen-specific CD4+ T cells.

Proteases generate peptides that bind to MHC class II molecules to interact with a wide diversity of CD4+ T cells.

To assess the hypothesis that the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) might mimic major histocompatibility complex (MHC) allodeterminants and interact with T-cell receptors (TCRs) of alloreactive T-cells, we have done a preliminary analysis of the range of alpha beta TCR gene products in 16 HIV-1-seropositive individuals with normal CD4 counts and in 16 healthy HIV-1-negative controls.

NY-ESO-1-specific immune responses were observed for CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells from peripheral blood lymphocytes in 4 of 8 neuroblastoma patients, as detected by IFN-gamma enzyme-linked immunospot assay after in vitro stimulation either with the NY-ESO-1 recombinant protein or with the HLA-A2-restricted peptide NY-ESO-1(157-167).

Multimeric MHC I-peptide complexes containing phycoerythrin-streptavidin are widely used to detect and investigate antigen-specific CD8+ (and CD4+) T cells.

Using HLA-A,0201- and HLA-DR,4-transgenic mouse models, we found that DKK1-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T cell responses detected by DKK1 short peptide (P20 and P66v)-HLA-A,0201 tetramer staining and cytotoxic assay for CD8+ T cells or by CSFE dilution and IFN-a.

Both CD8(+) T-cells and CD4(+) T-cells transduced with the HLA-A2-restricted TARP-TCR could readily be detected by multimer analysis, indicating that the binding is rather strong, since binding occured also without\240\the CD8 co-receptor of HLA-A2.

In this study, we established and compared both MHC class II tetramer and intracellular CD154 staining, in order to detect CD4(+) Foxp3(+) Treg specific for foreign Ag in acute and chronic infections with lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV).

Even though strong HIV- and SIV-specific CD4(+) T-cell responses have been detected in individuals that control viral replication, major histocompatibility complex class II (MHC-II) molecules have not been definitively linked with slow disease progression.

Analysis of isolated donor CD8 and CD4 T cell clones activated during the GVHD revealed a polyclonal CD8 T cell response directed against the mismatched HLA-A2 and a polyclonal CD4 T\240\cell response recognizing HLA-A2-derived peptides presented in HLA class II.

In addition, leukemic blasts present at the time of the emergence of GVHD expressed HLA-A2 and HLA class II and could activate both the CD4 and CD8 alloreactive T cells.

To investigate the antigenicity of peptides carried by recombinant bacteriophages we displayed different HCMV MHCII restricted peptides on the capsid of filamentous bacteriophage (fd) and found that hybrid bacteriophages are processed by human APC and activate HCMV-specific CD4 T-cells.

Here we present evidence that IMCgp100 (ImmTAC recognizing a peptide derived from the melanoma-specific protein, gp100, presented by HLA-A,0201) efficiently redirects and activates effector and memory cells from both CD8+ and CD4+ repertoires.

CD8+ and gammadelta T cells, rather than CD4+ T cells, were activated in vivo in patients with active BD and HLA-B51, but not in those with inactive BD, suggesting that these potentially cytotoxic T cells play a critical role in BD flares.

Inflammation is T lymphocyte mediated, although surprisingly CD4+ cells are more active in transferring disease than CD8+ cells, which would be expected to be preferentially activated by Class I MHC peptides.

Interestingly, HLA-B,57 individuals have significantly lower CD4(+) T cell frequencies but harbor slightly more activated CD4(+) T cells compared with their HLA-B,35 counterparts.

In conclusion, NK licensing mediated by KIR2DL2/3 and HLA-C1 elicits a novel NK cytokine program that activates and induces proinflammatory CD4(+) T cells, thereby providing a potential biologic mechanism for KIR-associated susceptibility to CD and other chronic inflammatory diseases.

Cognate CD4(+) T-cell help mediated by CD40L along with DC stimulation with another T-cell effector molecule, termed lymphocyte activated gene-3 (LAG-3 or CD223, a ligand for MHC class II) have been shown to induce this maturation process.

In this study, we have generated recombinant vaccinia virus (VacV) vectors that target I-Ab-restricted peptides for MHC class II (MHC-II) presentation to activate CD4+ T cells in mice.

Overall, our data show that VacV vectors targeting peptides for MHC-II presentation is an effective strategy to activate Ag-specific CD4+ T cells in vivo and could be used to study Ag-specific effector and memory CD4+ T cell responses against a variety of viral, bacterial, or parasitic infections.

Peripheral blood B cells were isolated and cultured with CpG2006, PMA, MICA antigen, B-cell activating factor, CD40 ligand (CD40L) , human recombinant IL-2 (rhuIL-2) , rhuIL-10, rhuIL-4, and rhuIL-21.

It has been previously demonstrated that MVA-infected dendritic cells can present antigens in the context of MHC II and activate CD4+ T cell.

HLA class II alleles encode MHC proteins on antigen-presenting cells, which function to present peptides and activate CD4 T cells.

Here, we show that host CD4+ TEM activated by EC class II MHC molecules, provide critical help for this process.

We conclude that human CD8+ TEM-mediated rejection targeting graft EC class I MHC molecules requires help from CD4+ TEM cells activated by recognition of class II MHC molecules.

They mature upon recognition of pathogens and upregulate MHC molecules and costimulatory receptors to activate antigen-specific CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells.

Antigens delivered by the intracellular route induce MHC-I restricted CD8+ responses while antigens presented through the extracellular route activate MHC-II restricted CD4+ responses implying that the route of antigen delivery is a conduit to induction of B- or T-cell immune responses.

This approach allows DCs to be exposed to the entire repertoire of tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) originally expressed by the tumor cell, to process them endogenously, and to present antigenic epitopes thought the MHC class I and class II pathways to activate both CD8+ and CD4+ T cells, respectively.

Importance: Major histocompatibility complex class II (MHC-II) has been known to activate CD4 T helper immune cells.

Antigenic peptides displayed by MHC II (class II Major Histocompatibility Complex) molecules is a pivotal process to activate CD4+ TH cells (Helper T cells).

Immune responses against intestinal microbiota contribute to the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) and involve CD4(+) T cells, which are activated by major histocompatibility complex class II (MHCII) molecules on antigen-presenting cells (APCs).

Finally, we demonstrate that OPCs can phagocytose and that MHC-II-expressing OPCs can activate memory and effector CD4-positive T cells.

In our study, an MHC-II mRNA DCs vaccine platform was developed to activate CD4+ T cells and to enhance the anti-tumor response.

Unlike their WT counterparts, T2 and T1 Gal-1-/- B cells did not suppress TNF-α expression by CD4+ T cells activated in vitro with allogenic DCs (allo-DCs) , nor were they suppressive in vivo, being unable to delay MHC-class I mismatched skin allograft rejection following adoptive transfer.

CD11chiMHCII+CD4+ DCs were identified as plasmacytoid DCs (pDCs) that had acquired an activated phenotype according to their increased expression of MHC class II and CD86.

Major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II molecules are essential for processing and presenting exogenous pathogen antigens to activate CD4+ T cells.

In conclusion, MHC II uveal melanoma vaccines activate purified CD4+ T cells and may serve as a novel immunotherapy for uveal melanoma patients.

DCs are unique in their ability to process exogenous antigens via the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I pathway as well as in their ability to activate naive, antigen-specific CD8+ and CD4+ T cells.

These markers consist of T cell-specific antigens (CD2, CD3, CD4, and CD8)  activated T cell antigens (CD25 and CD71) , major histocompatibility complex (MHC) antigens (class I and II) , and adhesion molecules (LFA-1 and ICAM-1).

Our results support the concept that MHC class II-positive/Ii-negative (class II(+)/Ii(-)) antigen-presenting cells (APC) present endogenously synthesized vaccine antigens simultaneously by MHC class II and class I molecules activating both CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells.

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 10

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 73
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

CD44 was bound with importin β and transportin 1 in liver iCSCs.

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 10

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 74
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

Runx3 establishes epigenetic silencing in CD4-CD8+ cytotoxic T-cells by binding the CD4 silencer core sequence.

The remaining three contain sequences that had been previously demonstrated to induce CD8+ T cell response in Chagas\ disease patients, or bind HLA-A,02:01, but are, in this study, demonstrated to engage CD4+ T cells.

The results suggest that immunization with SIV grown in human CD4(+) T cells induces CD8-suppressor factor, RANTES, MIP-1alpha and MIP-1beta which may block CCR5 receptors and prevent the virus from binding and fusion to CD4(+) cells.

Moreover, vaccination induced an increase in CD8(+) T-cell binding to HLA tetramers containing the relevant peptides and an increased frequency of CD45RA(+) CCR7(-) (terminally differentiated effectors) and CD45RA(-) CCR7(-) (effector memory) cells.

At least in a single patient, T cells binding to the AAGIGILTV epitope were detected in naive, precursor (CD45RA+/CCR7+) CD8+ T cells, and CD8+ T cells binding to the analog ELAGIGILTV peptide were identified in the terminally differentiated (CD45RA+/CCR7-) T-cell subset.

In vivo, these CD8+ T cells form direct stable contacts with motile naïve CD4+ T cells, recruiting them to Ag+DC binding and to the formation of ternary complexes, where CD4+ and CD8+ T cells interact with the DC and with one another.

CD4+ T cells recognize MHC 2 bound antigens, while CD8+ T cells recognize MHC 1 bound antigens.

It is generally accepted that as the result of positive thymic selection, CD8-expressing T cells recognize peptide antigens presented in the context of MHC class I molecules and CD4-expressing T cells interact with peptide antigens presented by MHC class II molecules.

Staining with peptide-MHC tetramers demonstrated the expansion of CD8 T cells that recognize both the native and altered epitopes and possess an effector cytotoxic T lymphocyte phenotype (CD45RA(+) CD27(-) CCR7(-)).

A rare population of NY-ESO-1-specific T cells, which we named 19305 DP, expressed cell surface CD4, CD8α, and CD8β but not CD56 and recognized A,02+NY-ESO-1+ cancer cell lines in a CD4- and CD8-independent manner.

In individuals with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection, CD4:CD8 lymphocyte ratio is often recognized as a quantitative outcome that reflects the critical role of both CD4(+) and CD8(+) T-cells in HIV-1 pathogenesis or disease progression.

First, using IFN-gamma ELISPOT and synthetic peptide arrays as a source of antigen, we measured ex vivo frequencies of CD8(+) T cells recognizing known immunodominant CD4(+) T cell antigens in persons with latent tuberculosis infection.

Mature T helper cells (mostly CD4+ CD8-) recognize antigen in the context of class II MHC molecules, whereas cytotoxic T cells (mostly CD4-CD8+) recognize antigen in the context of class I MHC determinants.

In response to cytomegalovirus (CMV) peptide (pp65) priming, CD4dimCD8bright cells recognized CMV pp65 tetramer approximately 19-fold higher than CD4-CD8+ T cells, indicating that these cells are capable of antigen-specific recognition to a far greater extent than CD4-CD8+ T cells.

Third, we further confirmed that 6 D1 reacted with zebrafish CD4-1 but not CD4-2, and 2 C3 recognized zebrafish CD8α expressed on HEK293T cells.

Whereas much attention has in the past focused on CD8-positive cytotoxic T cells recognizing MHC class I presented epitopes, the increasing demand to validate TCRs expressed on neoepitope-reactive CD4 T cells requires the implementation of large-scale T cell activation-based readout assays to complement existing multimer and cytotoxicity-based assays.

Comparable frequencies of T cells that recognize Mtb-infected macrophages were determined using interferon-γ elispot and intracellular cytokine staining, and lung CD4 T cells more sensitively recognized Mtb-infected macrophages than lung CD8 T cells.

While CD8(+) T cells can directly recognize MHC class I on beta cells, the interaction between CD4(+) T cells and beta cells remains unclear.

In 6 patients with metastatic epithelial cancer, this method led to the detection of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells targeting 18 and 1 neoantigens, respectively, compared with 6 and 2 neoantigens recognized by CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, respectively, when using our standard TIL fragment screening approach.

Virus-specific cluster of differentiation 8 (CD8+) cytotoxic T cells (CTL) recognize viral antigens presented on major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I chains on infected hepatocytes, with help from CD4+ T cells.

Cross comparison of mAbs specific for a subset of hamster T cells with a cross reactive mAb known to recognize CD4 in mice and one recognising CD8 revealed they recognize CD4.

CD4+ and CD8+ CTL were examined to establish whether the same HIV-1 protein (Env, Gag or Pol) was recognized by both CD4+ and CD8+ CTL with MHC antigen restriction.

In this study, we show that Gag-specific CD8(+) T cells recognize infected CD4(+) T lymphocytes as early as 2 h postinfection, before proviral DNA integration, viral protein synthesis, and Nef-mediated MHC class I down-regulation.

CD4+ T cell help to CD8+ T cell responses requires that CD4+ and CD8+ T cells interact with the same antigen presenting dendritic cell (Ag+DC) , but it remains controversial whether helper signals are delivered indirectly through a licensed DC and/or involve direct CD4+/CD8+ T cell contacts and/or the formation of ternary complexes.

Thus, while CD4+ T cell help is important to CD8+ T cell responses, CD8+ T cells can interact directly with naïve CD4+ T cells impacting their recruitment and differentiation.

If TAA-specific CD4(+) T-cell responses were detected in SKIL cultures, it coincided with TAA-specific CD8(+) T-cell responses.

Using HLA-A,0201- and HLA-DR,4-transgenic mouse models, we found that DKK1-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T cell responses detected by DKK1 short peptide (P20 and P66v)-HLA-A,0201 tetramer staining and cytotoxic assay for CD8+ T cells or by CSFE dilution and IFN-a.

Both CD8(+) T-cells and CD4(+) T-cells transduced with the HLA-A2-restricted TARP-TCR could readily be detected by multimer analysis, indicating that the binding is rather strong, since binding occured also without\240\the CD8 co-receptor of HLA-A2.

Infection of CD3+ CD8+ CD45RA+ cells was detected in 9 of 16 study subjects at frequencies ranging from 30 to 1 , 400 proviral copies/10(6) cells, more frequently than CD3+ CD8+ lymphocytes expressing the RO isoform of CD45 (n = 2 , 70 and 260 copies/10 (6) cells).

SARS-CoV-specific CD4+ T-cell responses were detected in all vaccinees, and CD8+ T-cell responses in approximately 20 % of individuals.

Frequent multifunctional HSV-specific effector memory CD62Llow CD44high CD8+ TEM cells were detected in ASYMP individuals compared to more of monofunctional central memory CD62Lhigh CD44high CD8+ TCM cells in SYMP individuals.

Interferon-γ (IFN-γ) and interleukin-4 (IL-4) were detected in the CD4+ cells, and perforin and granzyme B were detected in the CD8+ cells.

The content of peripheral blood T cell subsets (CD3+, CD4+, CD8+) was detected by flow cytometry, and the ratio of CD4+/CD8+ was calculated.

Influenza-specific CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells were detected in the spleen and lymph nodes, and virus-specific CD8(+) effectors localized to the lungs of the JAK3 BMT mice.

While autoreactive CD4+ T cells have been detected in patients, CD8+ T cells have only been examined to a minor extent.

Although limited in time (four months) , the four-drug regimens correlates with an improved immunological response as measured by the CD4/CD8 ratio or the percentage of activated CD4+ and CD8+ cells.

While EVG/c/FTC/TDF introduction resulted in a stable CD4+ and CD8+ count, residual low-level HIV-RNA viremia, and HIV reservoirs, we observed a significant reduction in both activated CD4+ (p = 0.016) and CD8+ (p = 0.048) T cells, coupled with an increase in IL-2 and IFN-γ release by CD4+ and CD8+ effector memory T cells, and a decrease in cytokine production by terminally differentiated CD8+ T cells following SEB exposure.

Analysis of isolated donor CD8 and CD4 T cell clones activated during the GVHD revealed a polyclonal CD8 T cell response directed against the mismatched HLA-A2 and a polyclonal CD4 T\240\cell response recognizing HLA-A2-derived peptides presented in HLA class II.

Our results demonstrate that the GVHD was mediated by a cooperative CD4 and CD8 response directed against the mismatched HLA-A2 and suggest that leukemic blasts possibly activated this CD8 and CD4 T cell response.

In this study, we tested the efficacy of progressive generations of SCT DNA vaccines engineered to (1) enhance peptide binding, (2) enhance interaction with the CD8 coreceptor, and/or (3) activate CD4(+) helper T cells.

And, the expressions of PTEN, mTOR (RICTOR) and AKT1 reduced both in activated CD4 T cells and activated CD8 T cells.

We have shown that non-relapsing-VL/HIV (NR-) evolved with increase of CD4+ T-cell counts and reduction of activated CD4+ and CD8+ T cells after anti-leishmanial treatment.

HRSN had higher naive (CD45RO CD27) CD4 and CD8 T cell numbers and lower percentages of activated (HLADR CD38, CD70) CD4 and proliferating (Ki67) CD4 and CD8 T cells, irrespective of previous episodes of sexually transmittable infections.

We previously demonstrated that the CD4dimCD8bright phenotype constitutes an activated phenotype of CD8+ T cells.

3) , naive (CD45RO(-) CD62L(+) CD4(+)) , natural regulatory (CD45RO(-) CD25(+) CD127(-) CD4(+))  activated effector (CD45RO(+) CD38(++) CCR5(+) CD8(+)) , but not activated (CD38(+) HLA-DR(+)) CD4(+) T cells.

Distinct from its action on CD4+ T cells, IL35 signaling in gp130+CD8+ T cells activated the transcription factor STAT3, which antagonized intratumoral infiltration and effector function of CD8+ T cells via suppression of CXCR3, CCR5, and IFNγ expression.

Activated CD4+ T cells were predominantly of a central memory phenotype, and activated CD8+ T cells were distributed between central and effector memory phenotypes.

Binding of the FIV major surface glycoprotein on activated CD4+ T cells was observed through direct interaction with CD134 whereas, on activated CD8+ T cells, the binding was CD134-independent and mediated by CXCR4 and, to a lesser extent, heparan sulfate proteoglycans.

MP-CTLs displayed increased total, effector memory (CCR7(-) CD45RO(+)) , and activated (CD69(+)) CD3(+) CD8(+) T lymphocytes.

Using primary human CD8+ T cells, in this study, we identify IL-21 as a strong inducer of granulysin, demonstrate that IL-21 and IL-15 activate granulysin expression within CD8+ CD45RO+ T cells, and establish a role for Jak/STAT signaling in the regulation of granulysin within CD8+ T cells.

Antigens delivered by the intracellular route induce MHC-I restricted CD8+ responses while antigens presented through the extracellular route activate MHC-II restricted CD4+ responses implying that the route of antigen delivery is a conduit to induction of B- or T-cell immune responses.

We observed that MOG-reactive CD4(+) T cells failed to be activated and proliferate when CD4(-)-, CD8(-)-splenocytes from MOG/IFA-immunized mice were regarded as antigen-presenting cells (APC).

CD11chiMHCII+CD4+ DCs were identified as plasmacytoid DCs (pDCs) that had acquired an activated phenotype according to their increased expression of MHC class II and CD86.

The rejection of these immune-escaped cancers was mediated by NK cells and CD4+ T cells, whereas activated CD8+ T cells were dispensable.

No differences in 24-week change were seen between arms in CD4 or CD8 T cells, in the CD4/CD8 ratio, or in activated (CD38+HLA-DR+) CD4 or CD8 T cells.

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 10

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 75
'STAT',bind,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD4'

After harvest, the cell phenotype, signaling via the PI3K/mTOR and STAT pathways, expression of survival proteins and Annexin V binding were determined and compared to values obtained with freshly-separated CD4(+) CD25(high) and CD4(+) CD25(neg) T cells.

At the molecular level, SH479 inhibited TH17 differentiation by regulating signal transducer and activator of transcription-3 (STAT3) phosphorylation, DNA binding activity, and recruitment to the Il-17a promoter in CD4+ T cells.

However, the activation of JAK-STAT signaling pathways caused the inhibition of such cell-to-cell infection as well as the reversion of multiple HIV Env mutants that displayed differences in their abilities to bind to the CD4 receptor.

STAT5 and STAT3 are known to compete for promoter binding sites in CD4 T cells and the two transcription factors are believed to have opposite functions in the control of CD4 T cell differentiation.

CD4(+) cells of most individuals infected with HIV-1 harbor a C-terminally truncated and constitutively activated form of signal transducer and activator of transcription-5 (STAT5 Delta).

Here, we studied the role of serine/threonine phosphatases in STAT3 signaling in human antigen-specific CD4(+) T cell lines and cutaneous T cell lymphoma lines, expressing a constitutively activated STAT3.

Distinct from its action on CD4+ T cells, IL35 signaling in gp130+CD8+ T cells activated the transcription factor STAT3, which antagonized intratumoral infiltration and effector function of CD8+ T cells via suppression of CXCR3, CCR5, and IFNγ expression.

Expression of Janus kinase 3 (JAK3) or STAT5 in primary human CD4 T cells activated LTR transcription, while transactivation-incompetent dominant-negative STAT5 inhibited JAK3-induced LTR activity and infection of activated HIV-producing CD4 T-cells.

Infection of mice with HN878 and W4 was also associated with relatively higher levels of mRNA for a number of negative regulators of the Jak-Stat signaling pathway, such as suppressors of cytokine signaling (SOCS) 1 , 4 , and 5 , CD45, protein inhibitor of activated Stat1 (PIAS1) , protein tyrosine phosphatase nonreceptor type 1 (Ptpn1) , and protein tyrosine phosphatase nonreceptor type substrate 1 (Ptpns1).

Here, we found that EGCG enhanced IFN-γ-induced signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) activation in primary CD4(+) T cells from C57BL/6 mice and in a human leukemic CD4(+) T-cell line of Hut 78 cells, while it inhibited the classical pathway of IFN-γ signaling including activating phosphorylations of Janus kinase (JAK) 1 , JAK2 and STAT3, forming interferon-γ activated sequence (GAS)-binding STAT1 homodimers, and producing pro-inflammatory chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 9 (CXCL9).

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 10

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 76
'STAT',bind,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 75

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 10

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 77
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'STAT';'MHC',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 10

----> event: 'MHC',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 6

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 78
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'STAT';'MHC',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 10

----> event: 'MHC',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 7

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 79
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'STAT';'importin',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 10

----> event: 'importin',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 8

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 80
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'STAT';'importin',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 10

----> event: 'importin',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 9

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 81
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'STAT';'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 10

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 12

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 82
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'STAT';'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 10

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 13

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 83
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 11

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 84
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 11

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 85
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 11

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 86
'STAT',bind,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 75

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 11

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 87
'STAT',bind,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 75

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 11

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 88
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'STAT';'MHC',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 11

----> event: 'MHC',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 6

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 89
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'STAT';'MHC',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 11

----> event: 'MHC',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 7

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 90
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'STAT';'importin',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 11

----> event: 'importin',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 8

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 91
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'STAT';'importin',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 11

----> event: 'importin',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 9

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 92
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'STAT';'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 11

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 12

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 93
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'STAT';'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 11

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 13

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 94
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 95
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 96
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 97
'STAT',bind,'CD4';'CD4',bind,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 75

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 98
'STAT',bind,'CD4';'CD4',bind,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 75

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 99
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',bind,'STAT';'MHC',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

----> event: 'MHC',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 6

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 100
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',bind,'STAT';'MHC',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

----> event: 'MHC',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 7

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 101
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',bind,'STAT';'importin',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

----> event: 'importin',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 8

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 102
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',bind,'STAT';'importin',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

----> event: 'importin',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 9

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 103
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',bind,'STAT';'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 12

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 104
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',bind,'STAT';'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 13

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 105
'STAT',bind,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 75

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 106
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 107
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 108
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 109
'STAT',bind,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 75

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 110
'STAT',bind,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 75

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 111
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV';'MHC',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

----> event: 'MHC',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 45

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 112
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV';'MHC',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

----> event: 'MHC',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 46

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 113
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 114
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 115
'STAT',bind,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 75

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 116
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 117
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 118
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 119
'STAT',bind,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 75

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 120
'STAT',bind,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 75

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 121
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV';'MHC',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

----> event: 'MHC',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 45

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 122
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV';'MHC',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

----> event: 'MHC',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 46

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 123
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 124
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 125
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

CD44 was bound with importin β and transportin 1 in liver iCSCs.

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 126
'STAT',bind,'importin';'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'importin'

Finally, co-immunoprecipitation experiments from transfected epithelial cells showed that STAT1/2 binds importin α5 normally following rotavirus infection.

Moreover, Pol was found to interfere with nuclear transportation of STAT1/2 by competitively binding to the region of importin-α5 required for STAT1/2 recruitment.

The isoform importin α5 can bind phosphorylated cargos such as STAT1 and Epstein-Barr Virus Nuclear Antigen 1 , as well as the influenza virus polymerase subunit PB2.

Truncation mutant of Stat3 (aa1-320) that contains Arg214/215 exhibits specific binding to importin alpha5, and an exclusive nuclear localization.

In addition, we demonstrate that STAT1 binding to specific target DNA effectively blocks importin-alpha5 binding.

Only STAT dimers that had two intact NLS elements, one in each monomer, were able to bind to importin alpha 5.

gamma-Activated sequence DNA elements efficiently inhibited STAT binding to importin alpha 5 suggesting that the DNA and importin alpha binding sites are close to each other in STAT dimers.

Similar results were observed for Stat1, but not for Stat5a and 5 b, which were unable to interact with any of the importin alphas.

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 127
'STAT',bind,'importin';'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 126

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 128
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',bind,'STAT';'CD4',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 10

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 129
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',bind,'STAT';'CD4',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 11

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 130
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 8

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 131
'STAT',bind,'importin';'importin',inhibit,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 126

----> event: 'importin',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 8

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 132
'STAT',bind,'importin';'importin',inhibit,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 126

----> event: 'importin',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 8

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 133
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',inhibit,'STAT';'CD4',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 8

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 10

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 134
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',inhibit,'STAT';'CD4',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 8

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 11

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 135
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 9

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 136
'STAT',bind,'importin';'importin',regulate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 126

----> event: 'importin',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 9

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 137
'STAT',bind,'importin';'importin',regulate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 126

----> event: 'importin',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 9

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 138
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',regulate,'STAT';'CD4',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 9

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 10

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 139
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',regulate,'STAT';'CD4',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 9

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 11

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 140
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

In addition, three other hCG beta-derived peptides that exhibited HLA-A,0201 binding ability were able to stimulate CD8+ cytotoxic T cells from two HLA-A,0201 donors.

Here we show with a human CTL clone specific for a tumor-associated MHC-peptide complex that the binding of tetramers to the TCR on these cells is completely blocked by anti-human CD8 Abs.

The results show that MHC class I monomers bind to, but do not activate, CD8 T cells whether the cells are in solution or adhered to a surface.

Following screening of synthesized peptides by splenic CD8(+) T cells of vaccinated mice, we selected candidate epitopes bound to HLA-A2402.

One set expressed a modified Kb molecule which contained a human HLA-A2 alpha 3 domain, thereby missing the binding residues for the murine CD8 molecules.

CD8alphaalpha bound the classical MHC molecules HLA-A,0201,-A,1101,-B,3501, and-C,0702 with dissociation constants (K(d)) of 90-220 microm, a range of affinities distinctly lower than that of TCR/peptide-MHC interaction.

In contrast, CD8alphaalpha bound both HLA-A,6801 and B,4801 with a significantly lower affinity (& gt.

Taken together with crystallographic studies, these results indicate that subtle conformational changes in the solvent exposed alpha3 domain loop (residues 223-229) can account for the differential ability of both classical and nonclassical class I MHC molecules to bind CD8.

Three peptides had been identified with high binding scores for HLA-A03 supertypes using bioinformatic algorhythms, high measured binding affinity for HLA-A03 supertype molecules, and ability to elicit IFN-γ production by human HLA-A03 supertype peripheral blood CD8+ T cells from seropositive but not seronegative persons.

Both CD8(+) T-cells and CD4(+) T-cells transduced with the HLA-A2-restricted TARP-TCR could readily be detected by multimer analysis, indicating that the binding is rather strong, since binding occured also without\240\the CD8 co-receptor of HLA-A2.

Immunization of transgenic HLA-A,02:01/HLA-DRB1,01:01 mice with four of these double binding peptides gave rise to both HLA class I and class II restricted responses by CD8 and CD4 T cells, respectively, whereas four of the double binding peptides did result in HLA-A,02:01 restricted responses only.

Among 94 peptides tested, the three T helper epitope long peptides and their inner CTL epitope short peptides with HLA-A2 binding motifs were frequently recognized by IgG of cancer patients, and efficiently induced both CD4(+) IFN-γ(+) and CD8(+) IFN-γ(+) T lymphocytes.

HLA-B27, like other MHC class I molecules, physiologically binds antigenic peptides in its binding groove and presents them to CD8+ T lymphocytes.

Whether disease is the result of selective MHC binding of enteric antigens uniquely capable of inducing disease, lack of appropriate induction of a CD8+ suppressor cell population, or skewed cytokine (IL-12, IL-18) secretion by APCs remains to be determined.

As judged from HLA-typing results and using bioinformatics technology for prediction of MHC binding affinity, we found that the epitope-specific CD8(+) T cells are all restricted by HLA-B alleles.

The overlapping CD8+ and CD4+ T-cell epitopes were bound with most conserved HLA-C,12:03 and HLA-DRB1,01:01, respectively with the high binding affinity (kcal/mol).

The MICA protein is thought to activate immune function on mucosal tissue by binding to NKG2D which is expressed on most natural killer cells, CD8 positive T cells, and gamma delta T cells.

The polymorphic MHC class I chain-related A (MICA) gene encodes a ligand that has different binding affinities for the NKG2D activating receptor of CD8+ T cells and natural killer (NK) cells.

Beta2-microglobulin (beta2m) is the light chain of major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I) molecules, and is a prerequisite for the binding of peptides to the heavy chain and their presentation to CD8+ T cells.

The HLA-A,1101-GPI tetramers could bind to virus-specific CD8+ T cells, suggesting soluble HLA-A,1101-GPI tetramers were biologically functional.

HLA-B alleles showed fast off-rates in peptide binding and restricted high numbers (up to 6 %) of antigen-specific CD8+ T cells in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis.

In contrast, production of these cytokines, which are tightly regulated by specific activation through the T cell receptor, was restricted when the CTL were stimulated with peptides loaded onto C1R cells that were transfected with an HLA-A2 molecule bearing a mutation that abrogates binding to the CD8 co-receptor.

Using fluorescent peptide-MHC class I tetramers incorporating mutations in the alpha3 domain (D227K/T228A) that abrogate binding to the CD8 coreceptor, we were able to confirm the presence of high-avidity T-cell clones within the antigen-specific repertoire.

We first combined the use of an HLA-A,0201/peptide binding algorithm and T2 binding assays with the induction of specific CD8(+) T cell lines from normal donors by in vitro priming with high-affinity peptides, then IFN-gamma release and cytotoxicity assays were employed to identify the specific HLA-A,0201 CD8(+) T cell epitope using peptide-loaded T2 cells or the HCA587 protein(+) HCC cell line HepG2.

The results show that a panel of CD8+ CTL that are specific for the hapten DNP bound to two different peptides presented by HLA-A2 do the following: 1) show stringent MHC restriction, and 2) are largely affected by the same mutations on the HLA-A2 molecule that affected recognition by peptide-specific CTL.

In this study, we demonstrate that fluorescent peptide/MHC class I multimeric complexes incorporating mutations in the alpha3 domain (D227K/T228A) that abrogate binding to the CD8 coreceptor can be used to selectively isolate tumor Ag-specific T cells of high functional avidity from both in vitro expanded and ex vivo T cell populations.

In this study we used soluble peptides-MHC class I (pMHC) multimeric complexes bearing mutations in the CD8 binding site that impair their binding to the MHC, together with altered peptide ligands, to assess the impact of CD8 on pMHC binding to the TCR.

We identified HLA-A2 binding HPV16 E7 variant peptides from human, bacterial, or viral origin which are able to drive CD8(+)-T-cell responses directed against wild-type HPV16 E7 amino acid 11 to 19/20 (E7(11-19/20)) epitope YMLDLQPET(T) in vitro.

vivax CS, five peptide sequences containing the HLA-A,0201 binding motifs and used the corresponding synthetic peptides to evaluate the CD8(-) T-lymphocyte interferon (IFN)-gamma response.

Fluorochrome-labelled tetramers consisting of appropriate MHC class I molecules in complex with predicted binding peptides derived from Plasmodium falciparum AMA-1 were used to label ex vivo AMA-1 epitope specific CD8+ T cells from research subjects responding strongly to immunization with the NMRC-M3V-Ad-PfCA (adenovirus-vectored) malaria vaccine.

We used MHC class I tetrameric complexes that were mutated in the CD8 binding domain to identify CMV-specific CD8(+) T cells with high Ag-binding avidity.

CD8(+) T cells recognize infected or dysregulated cells via the clonotypically expressed αβ TCR, which engages Ag in the form of peptide bound to MHC class I (MHC I) on the target cell surface.

CD8(+) T cells recognize immunogenic peptides presented at the cell surface bound to MHCI molecules.

Here, we present the complex structures of human CD8αα bound to HLA-A,2402, which demonstrate two opposite α3 domain CD loop shifts (either pull or push) in the HLA heavy chain upon CD8 engagement.

Eight out of 11 predicted HLA-A2 binders showed a high binding affinity and five of them were recognized by CD8+ T cells from patients with hepatitis A.

We were able to identify a panel of HLA-A,0201-restricted peptides derived from the same region of the glycoprotein precursor (GPC) of LASV (GPC spanning residues 441 to 449 [ GPC(441-449) ]) , LCMV (GPC(447-455)) , JUNV (GPC(429-437)) , MACV (GPC(444-452)) , GTOV (GPC(427-435)) , and WWAV (GPC(428-436)) that displayed high-affinity binding to HLA-A,0201 and were recognized by CD8(+) T cells in a cross-reactive manner following LCMV infection or peptide immunization of HLA-A,0201 transgenic mice.

HLA-A11-transgenic mice immunized with these epitopes could specifically induce interferon-gamma (IFNgamma) production, cytotoxicity and peptide/HLA-A11 tetramer binding in CD8(+) T-cells.

Immunodominant WT1 epitopes, the native HLA-A2/WT1126-134 (RMFPNAPYL) (HLA-A2/RMFPNAPYL epitope (WT1A)) and its modified variant YMFPNAPYL (HLA-A2/YMFPNAPYL epitope (WT1B)) , can induce WT1-specific CD8+ T cells, although WT1B is more stably bound to HLA-A,02:01.

A keystone of antiviral immunity is CD8+ T cell recognition of viral peptides bound to MHC-I proteins.

CD8-liganded HLA-A2 preference for binding HuD suggests that CD8-HLA-A2 may present a weakly binding peptide for TCR recognition, supporting the hypothesis that CD8 increases TCR avidity to weak Ag-s.

However, mutant N-terminally extended peptides exhibited significantly increased HLA-A,02:01 binding affinity and elicited CD8(+) T cell stimulation in vitro similar to the wtgp100209-217 epitope.

Primary CD8(+) T cells that expressed the transgenic T-cell receptor specifically bound GPC3367 on HLA-A2.

To investigate the disconnection between observed CD8 T-cell responses and immunity to IAV, we used a Poisson liquid chromatography data-independent acquisition MS method to physically detect PR8/34 (H1N1) , X31 (H3N2) , and Victoria/75 (H3N2) epitopes bound to HLA-A,02:01 on human epithelial cells following in vitro infection.

In addition to altering recognition by HIV-1-specific CD8+ T cells, the HLA-B2705-KK10 L6M complex also exhibits substantially increased binding to the immunoglobulin-like transcript (ILT) receptor 4 , an inhibitory MHC class I-specific receptor expressed on myelomonocytic cells.

The T-cell receptor of a CD8(+) T-cell recognises peptide epitopes bound by class I major histocompatibility complex (MHC) glycoproteins presented in a groove on their upper surface.

It has been suggested that an amino acid sequence within the HLA-B27 molecule allows microbial peptides to bind and be presented to T cytotoxic cells (CD8) , which results in a primary T cytotoxic cell response against various tissues.

This indicates that the substitution at residue 228 affects recognition of CD8-dependent CTL but does not critically affect binding of CD8 to MHC class I molecules, although residue 224 abrogates binding of CD8.

We used site-directed mutagenesis to construct a series of HLA-B27 mutants with different substitutions at the sites of the conserved amino acid residues of HLA-B27 subtypes, specifically residue 77 which is thought to be critical to the binding site of the molecule, and a residue at the CD8 binding site.

We have searched the proteome of the bacterium Chlamydia trachomatis for HLA-B27 binding peptides that are stimulatory for CD8(+) cells both in a model of HLA-B27 transgenic mice and in patients.

Thus, the aim of this study was to explore the relationship between the structure of abacavir with HLA-B,57:01 binding and the CD8+ T-cell activation.

Modelling and immunopeptidome analysis delineate how drug HLA-B,57:01 binding and peptide display by antigen presenting cells relate to the activation of CD8+ T-cells.

Additionally, peptide-deficient HLA-B,35:01 tetramers preferentially bind CD8 and to a majority of blood-derived CD8+ T cells via a CD8-dependent binding mode.

Using a state-of-the-art imputation method to analyse the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) region, Ombrello and colleagues narrowed down the association between human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-B51 and Behçet\s disease to a model of five amino acids of the HLA-B molecule involved in the binding of the antigen, the interactions with receptors on CD8 T cells and natural killer cells, and the signal peptide of HLA-B, suggesting a crucial role of the cellular cytotoxicity on this disease.

We analyzed this response using a mouse model that harbors a point mutation in the class Ib MHC molecule Qa-1, which disrupts Qa-1 binding to the T cell receptor (TCR)-CD8 complex and impairs the CD8 Treg response.

These CD8 T cell responses included HLA-A,0201-restricted CTL activity, CD8/IFN-gamma T cell responses, and HLA tetramer binding against defined immunodominant epitopes in gag, pol, env, and nef as well as potent CD8/IFN-gamma responses against undefined HLA-A,0201-restricted epitopes in all remaining Ags of the library.

The alpha 1 and alpha 2 domains of the class I MHC molecule constitute the putative binding site for processed peptides and the TCR, although the alpha 3 domain has been implicated as a binding site for the CD8 molecule.

We demonstrate here that binding of HLA-A2 tetramers to CD8(+) T cells specific for the melanoma-associated antigen Melan-A/MART-1 can be fine-tuned by altering either the bound peptide epitope or residues in the alpha 3 domain of HLA-A2, which is important for CD8 binding.

Activation of CD8(+) cytolytic T lymphocytes (CTLs) by antigen is triggered by the interaction of clonotypic alphabeta T cell receptors (TCRs) with antigenic peptides bound to MHC class I molecules (pMHC complexes).

To investigate whether there are differences in the effector functions of these cells, we generated a panel of Tax11-19-reactive T cell clones by single cell sorting of HLA-A2/Tax11-19 tetramer binding CD8(+) T cells followed by repeated stimulation with PHA and IL-2.

Class I MHC molecules bind peptides in the endoplasmic reticulum and present them at the cell surface to circulating CD8+ T cells for analysis.

Using TCR-pMHC binding avidity measurements combined to phenotype and functional assays, we performed a comprehensive study on representative tumor antigen-specific CD8 T-cell clones (n = 454) from seven patients vaccinated with different doses of Melan-A/ELA peptide (0.1 mg vs.

For CD8 T lymphocytes to mount responses to cancer and virally-infected cells, dendritic cells must capture antigens present in tissues and display them as peptides bound to MHC-I molecules.

HLA-A2 binding was confirmed for all peptides by T2 cell binding assays and recall responses after vaccination with the peptides proved that 5 of 6 peptides could induce CD8 T cell responses.

Two major types of T cells, CD4(+) and CD8(+) , that use the same genetic elements and process to generate a functional TCR differ in their recognition of peptide bound to MHC class II and I, respectively.

Furthermore, by employing MHC binding algorithms and bioinformatics combined with high-throughput human T-cell screens and tetramers, HLA-class Ia restricted polyfunctional CD8(+) T-cells were identified in TB patients.

Cell clusters within these FTAs can be pulsed with major histocompatibility (MHC) class-I and MHC class-II binding peptides and thereby act as target cells for CD8(+) and CD4(+) T cells, respectively.

By surveying 58 MHC class II and 224 MHC class I crystal structures in the Protein Data Bank, it becomes clear that CD4 cannot bind to MHC I molecules, nor can CD8αβ or CD8αα bind to MHC II molecules.

However, MHC-E also binds pathogen-derived peptide Ags for presentation to CD8+ T cells.

However, MHC-E also binds diverse foreign and neoplastic self-peptide antigens for presentation to CD8+ T cells.

In agreement with modulation of surface MHC-Ia levels, TAP inhibition diminished presentation of MHC-Ia-restricted CD8+ T cell epitopes without impacting presentation of peptide antigen bound by MHC-E.

To monitor the health of cells, the immune system tasks antigen-presenting cells with gathering antigens from other cells and bringing them to CD8 T cells in the form of peptides bound to MHC-I molecules.

Decades of research, including the 1996 Nobel Prize in Medicine, confirm the evolutionary and immunological importance of CD8 T lymphocytes (TCD8+) that target peptides bound by the highly variable major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I) proteins.

One of the most important molecules involved in these events is the Major Histocompatibility Complex class I (MHC-I) , responsible for binding and presenting small peptides from the intracellular environment to CD8(+) T cells.

Out of nine identified peptides, we confirmed six novel MHC-I restricted epitopes that were capable of binding HLA-A2 and HLA-A24 alleles and used in vitro and in vivo methods to generate CD8+ T cells specific for each of these peptides.

ICAM-1 binding correlates with peptide-MHC multimer binding but, notably, it identifies the fraction of antigen-specific CD8+ T cells with immediate and high functional capability (i.

Key players in antitumor responses are CD8+ cytolytic T lymphocytes (CTLs) that can detect tumor cells that carry antigens, in other words, small peptides bound to surface major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I molecules.

However, most peptides predicted using MHC binding prediction algorithms do not induce a CD8 + T cell response, and there is a crucial need to refine the predictions to readily identify the best antigens that could mediate T-cell responses.

Major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I molecules play a crucial role in the immune response by binding and presenting pathogen-derived peptides to specific CD8+ T cells.

In addition, it has been suggested that HLA-A68-restricted TCR might bind with higher affinity than other TCR due to their selection in the presence of a decreased contribution from CD8.

Because T-cell receptor engagement of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules in the absence of costimulation mediated via CD28 binding to CD80 (B7-1) or CD86 (B7-2) can lead to anergy or apoptosis, we determined whether HIV type 1 (HIV-1) virions incorporated MHC class I (MHC-I) , MHC-II, CD80, or CD86.

To test this concept in a relevant disease model we sought to identify multiple simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV)-derived CD8(+) epitopes bound by a single nonhuman primate major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I molecule.

CD8-positive cytotoxic T cells (CTLs) are activated by recognition of peptide bound to MHC class I molecules on target cells.

We found that Nef coprecipitated with and disrupted the expression of molecules with cytoplasmic tails from MHC-I HLA-A2, CD4, CD8β, and CD28, but Nef did not bind to or alter the expression of molecules with cytoplasmic tails from CD80, CD86, and CD1d.

Nef colocalizes with MHC class I (MHCI) , CD80, and CD86 in intracellular compartments, and binds to both mouse and human CD80 and CD86.

These CD8(+) T cells produced IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha and recognized Ag-pulsed or bacillus Calmette-Guérin-infected, HLA-A,0201-positive, but not HLA-A,0201-negative or uninfected human macrophages.

HHV-6B-specific CD8(+) T-cell lines and clones recognized HLA-A2-restricted peptides from the viral structural proteins U54 and U11, and displayed various antigen-specific antiviral effector functions.

However, only gene-modified CD8(+) lymphocytes specifically recognized HLA-A2.

However, when these TCRs were expressed in CD8- Jurkat cells, the resulting Jurkat cells recognized gp100:209-217 peptide loaded T2 cells and had high functional avidity, but could not recognize HLA-A2+ melanoma cells expressing gp100.

Hypochlorous acid-treated SK-OV-3 cells drove expansion of CD8(+) T cells from HLA-A2(+) individuals, which recognized the HLA-A2-restricted tumor antigen epitopes of HER-2/neu (E75 and GP2) and MUC1 (M1.

CD4 and CD8 T-cell lines recognized PSA in the context of HLA-DRbeta1,1501 and HLA-B,0702, respectively.

The other CTL clone, T1/33, was CD8+ and recognized HLA-B,3501 or B,3503 complexed with an MCE, RPVASDFEP, derived from the c-abl sequence in proximity to the p210(b3a2) fusion point.

The anti-EBV T-cell response of one patient is mediated by HLA-B7 restricted CD8+ alphabeta T lymphocytes recognizing the BMRF1 nuclear EBV antigen, demonstrating that CD8+ alphabeta T cells can participate in anti-viral responses.

This CD8+ TIL clone specifically recognized and killed a fraction of melanoma cells lines expressing Melan-A/MART1 and HLA-Cw,0701.

MHC-independent αβTCRs (TCRs) recognize conformational epitopes on native self-proteins and arise in mice lacking both MHC and CD4/CD8 coreceptor proteins.

Peptide specific murine CD8 T cells recognized COS-7 cells co-transfected with HHD (HLA-A,0201) and STEAP cDNA constructs and also HLA-A,0201(+) STEAP(+) human tumor cells.

Furthermore, STEAP(86-94) and STEAP(262-270) stimulated specific CD8(+) T cells from HLA-A,0201(+) healthy donors, and these peptide specific CD8(+) T cells recognized STEAP positive human tumor cells in an HLA-A,0201-restricted manner.

After 4 weeks, up to 32.3 % of the expanded CD8(+) T cells specifically recognized MDM2(81-88) by HLA-A2-dimer/peptide staining and up to 0.9 % of all T cells expanded reacted specifically against this MDM2-derived peptide in the IFN-gamma-ELISPOT assay.

Finally, we could confirm that CD8+ T cells in association with HLA-A2 recognized the most reactive peptides when the corresponding full-length genes were used to DNA-immunize HLA-A2 transgenic mice.

To investigate this hypothesis, we analysed the response of peripheral CD8(+) T cells that recognized epitopes presented by HLA-A,2402.

These CD8+CTL lines recognized a HLA-A2+breast cancer cell line expressing the Mam-A2.

CD8+ CTLs from breast cancer patients also recognized a similar epitope pattern as did those in the HLA-A2+/hCD8 mice and reacted to the Mam-A2.

As a result of this work, we report a potential new T cell target protein, one previously unknown CD8-T cell-stimulating peptide, and an extensive list of CMV-derived potentially strong HLA-A,0201-binding peptides that are not recognized by T cells of HLA-A,0201-positive CMV-seropositive donors.

HLA-A,0201-restricted CD8(+) T cells recognizing Ags expressed in human melanoma (melanoma Ag recognized by T cell-1 (MART-1)/melanoma Ag A (Melan-A)) or colon carcinoma (carcinoembryonic Ag (CEA)/epithelial cell adhesion molecule (EpCAM)) were triggered to release IFN-gamma and to mediate cytotoxic activity by HLA-A,0201-matched APCs pulsed with hsp96 purified from tumor cells expressing the relevant Ag.

By analyzing a tumor-infiltrated lymph node of a melanoma patient bearing an SSX-2-expressing tumor, we have recently identified the first SSX-2-derived CD8(+) T-cell epitope, that corresponds to peptide SSX-2(41-49) , and is recognized by specific CTL in an HLA-A2 restricted fashion.

Freshly isolated and purified CD8(+) cells when tested, also recognized the epitopes, as measured by IFN assay, when presented by transporter associated with antigen-processing (TAP) deficient T2 cells in an MHC-I restricted fashion.

CD8(+) T cells reacting to the HLA-A2-presented peptide from HPV16 E7(11-19(20)) recognized also the HLA-A2 binding peptide TMLDIQPED (amino acids 52 to 60) from the human coronavirus OC43 NS2 gene product.

From the same patient, a rare CD8(+) TIL clone with a distinct TCR recognized all four cancer cell lines restricted by HLA-B,4901.

Although T-cell responses were of low frequency (0.15 %) , a CD8(+) T-cell clone (KSIVB17) was isolated that optimally recognized Bax(136-144) peptide (IMGWTLDFL) presented by HLA-A,0201.

In particular, downregulation of MHC-I molecules at the cell surface can reduce the ability of CD8+ T cells to recognize viral peptides presented by MHC-I molecules and thereby delay viral clearance by CD8+ T cells.

We have worked to overcome this limitation by using lentiviral transduction to \ reprogram\ primary human CD8 T cells to express three T cell receptors (TCRs) specific for a peptide derived from the β cell antigen islet-specific glucose-6-phosphatase catalytic subunit-related protein (IGRP265-273) and recognized in the context of the human class I major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecule HLA-A2.

We report the identification of an HLA-B27 restricted hepatitis C virus (HCV)-specific CD8+ T cell epitope that is recognized in the majority of recovered HLA-B27 positive women.

For three peptides CD8(+) T cell lines were expanded and four of the 13 were recognized permissively through the HLA-B7 supertype family.

NY-ESO-1 p94-102 specific CD8+ T cells recognized naturally processed NY-ESO-1 presented by HLA-B51+ monocyte-derived dendritic and tumor cells.

By stimulating human CD8(+) T lymphocytes with autologous dendritic cells infected with an adenovirus encoding MAGE-3, we obtained a cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) clone that recognized a new MAGE-3 antigenic peptide, AELVHFLLL, which is presented by HLA-B40.

We previously isolated CD8+ CTL clones that recognized a male-specific minor histocompatibility Ag presented by HLA-B8.

To identify dominant CD8+ T cell responses recognized in HIV-1 clade CRF01_AE infected subjects we drew upon data from an immunological screen of 100 HIV-1 clade CRF01_AE infected subjects using IFN-gamma ELISpot to characterize a novel immunodominant CD8+ T cell response in HIV-1 Gag restricted by HLA-Cw,0102 (p24, (277) YSPVSILDI(285) , YI9).

Our data indicate a role of HLA-B 57-restricted CD8(+) T-cell responses in mediating spontaneous clearance and evolution in HCV infection, and viral strains containing epitope variants that are less recognized abrogate the protective effects of HLA-B 57.

Blocking experiments identified IFNγ-producing cells as CD8 T lymphocytes, with two peptides frequently recognized in HLA-B8+ patients and a third one targeted in HLA-B35+ subjects.

Ex vivo analysis of T cells from healthy virus carriers revealed a dominant CD8(+) T-cell response to the latency-associated pUL138 protein, which recognized a non-canonical 13 aa epitope in association with HLA-B,3501.

Indeed, SIV-specific, Mamu-E-restricted CD8+ T cells from RM recognized antigenic peptides presented by all MHC-E molecules tested, including cross-species recognition of human and MCM SIV-infected CD4+ T cells.

These MHC Ib-restricted CD8+ T cells recognized several Mtb-derived protein antigens at a higher frequency than MHC Ia-restricted CD8+ T cells.

During HIV infection, CD8+ T-cells are able to recognize infected cells through an MHC-I dependent process and are able to lyse cells harboring viral infection by the secretion of perforin and granzymes.

CD4+ and CD8+ CTL were examined to establish whether the same HIV-1 protein (Env, Gag or Pol) was recognized by both CD4+ and CD8+ CTL with MHC antigen restriction.

In response to pressure exerted by major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I-mediated CD8(+) T cell control, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) escape mutations often arise in immunodominant epitopes recognized by MHC class I alleles.

In this study, we show that Gag-specific CD8(+) T cells recognize infected CD4(+) T lymphocytes as early as 2 h postinfection, before proviral DNA integration, viral protein synthesis, and Nef-mediated MHC class I down-regulation.

MICA has been found to interact with gamma delta T cells, alpha beta CD8(+) and natural killer (NK) cells bearing the NKG2D/DAP10 receptor.

Non-conventional MHC class I MIC molecules interact not with the TCR, but with NKG2D, a C-type lectin activatory receptor present on most NK, gammadelta and CD8(+) alphabeta T cells.

The nonclassical MHC class I molecule MHC class I-related chain A (MICA) interacts with the NKG2D receptor expressed at the surface of most peripheral CD8 T cells, gammadelta T cells, and NK cells.

MICA molecules interact with NKG2D, augmenting the activation of natural killer cells, CD8(+) alpha beta T cells, and gamma delta T cells.

MICA molecules interact with the NKG2D-activating receptor on human NK and CD8 T cells.

MHC class I chain-related molecule A (MICA) is highly polymorphic and interacts with NKG2D, its receptor on the surface of NK, Tγδ and T CD8(+) cells.

Major histocompatibility complex class I chain-related A (MICA) encodes a highly polymorphic stress-inducible protein, which interacts with NKGD2 receptor on the surface of NK, γδ T cells and T CD8 lymphocytes.

Interestingly, the majority of disease-inducing parasite-specific CD8+ T cells interacted with the lumen of brain vascular endothelial cells (ECs) , where they were observed surveying, dividing, and arresting in a cognate peptide-MHC I dependent manner.

Qa-2 and Qa-1 are murine nonclassical MHC class I molecules involved in the modulation of immune responses by interacting with T CD8(+) and NK cell inhibitory receptors.

Here we show that senescent dermal fibroblasts express the non-classical MHC molecule HLA-E, which interacts with the inhibitory receptor NKG2A expressed by NK and highly differentiated CD8+ T cells to inhibit immune responses against senescent cells.

NY-ESO-1-specific immune responses were observed for CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells from peripheral blood lymphocytes in 4 of 8 neuroblastoma patients, as detected by IFN-gamma enzyme-linked immunospot assay after in vitro stimulation either with the NY-ESO-1 recombinant protein or with the HLA-A2-restricted peptide NY-ESO-1(157-167).

In addition, more than 40 % of HTLV-I Tax11-19-specific CD8+ T cells as detected by an HLA-A,0201/Tax11-19 tetramer proliferated in culture.

In this study, HIV-specific effector CD8+ T cells, as detected by both a sensitive ex vivo enzyme-linked immunospot (ELISPOT) assay and specific major histocompatibility complex (MHC) peptide tetramers, were at a low frequency in the peripheral blood of LTNP, and recognized a lower number of HIV peptides than their memory resting cell counterparts.

HIV-specific tetramer-staining CD8+ T cells were detected in 6 of 10 HLA-A,0201-positive persons, which declined in 5 with treatment.

Multimeric MHC I-peptide complexes containing phycoerythrin-streptavidin are widely used to detect and investigate antigen-specific CD8+ (and CD4+) T cells.

Matrix protein-specific CD8(+) T cells were detected among 10.0 % (2 of 20) of HLA-A,0201(+) newborns.

Using HLA-A,0201- and HLA-DR,4-transgenic mouse models, we found that DKK1-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T cell responses detected by DKK1 short peptide (P20 and P66v)-HLA-A,0201 tetramer staining and cytotoxic assay for CD8+ T cells or by CSFE dilution and IFN-a.

Furthermore, hChgA(10-19) and hChgA(43-52)-induced IFN-γ releasing by specific CD8(+) T cells were frequently detected in recent-onset HLA-A,0201-positive T1D patients.

From this patient, CML66-reactive CD8+ T-cell clones were detected against an endogenously presented HLA-B,4403-restricted epitope (HDVDALLW).

Abacavir reactive CD8+ T-cell responses were detected in vitro in one hundred percent of abacavir unexposed HLA-B,57:01 positive healthy donors.

CD8+ T cells could be detected in close proximity to MICA/B+ cells within multiple sclerosis lesions, supporting an in vivo interaction between these immune effectors and stressed MICA/B-expressing oligodendrocytes.

Using HLA-containing pentamers with PSA-derived peptides we could detect prostate-specific CD8+ T cells in this patient at high frequencies over several months.

After expansion in vitro, the functional IFN-gamma producing M3(271) specific CD8(+) T cells were detected in 30.8 % (8/26) of HLA-A2(+) MAGE-A3(+) HCC patients.

Gag169-177-specific CD8+T cells were frequently detected in both HLA-A,2601+ and-A,2603+ individuals with chronic HIV-1 infection, whereas Env63-72-specific ones were frequently detected only in the HLA-A,2603+ individuals.

CD8+ T cells specific for PSA-derived peptides were detected at low frequency in HLA-A2-positive PC patients.

Distinct subsets of CD8+ T cells specific for each HLA-A,0201/peptide combination were detected within four in vitro-stimulated T cell populations specific for foreign HLA-A,0201.

HLA-A , 201/IgHV1(3-11) tetramers were used to detect the proliferation of IgHV1(3-11)-specific CD8(+) T cells in the culture.

Using the constructed HLA-A2-peptide tetramer to detect the HBV/HCV-specific CTL, the HBV-specific CD8(+) frequencies were 1.84 % and 0.02 %-0.68 % of the total CD8(+) T cells in acute and chronic HBV hepatitis, respectively.

Six of the nine different HCV NS3-2 peptide variants were identified in patients with HCV NS3-2-specific CD8+ cells detected with an HLA-A2 tetramer made with the HCV-1 prototype peptide.

In conclusion, (i) the HCV NS3-2 epitope is not conserved between different HCV strains/subtypes, and (ii) an HLA-A2 tetramer loaded with the HCV-1 prototype NS3-2 peptide may still detect NS3-specific CD8+ cells in some patients with variant viruses.

The advent in recent years of the application of tetrameric arrays of class I peptide-MHC complexes now enables us to detect and study rare populations of Ag-specific CD8(+) T cells.

HLA-B,0801 and HLA-A,0201 tetramers folded with immunodominant EBV peptides were used to detect EBV-specific CD8+ T cells by flow cytometry in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from 24 pediatric liver and kidney transplant recipients.

WT1-specific CD8(+) CTLs of 14 patients with HLA-A,0201 were detected by HLA-A,0201/WT1 pentamer.

Results showed that WT1(+) CD8(+) CTLs could be detected in patients with HLA-A,0201 expressing only in recipient, and cells of recipient origin existed in the blood of patients who achieved FDC, which suggested that LAA-specific CTLs of recipient origin may exist in patients achieving FDC soon after NST.

By Pentamer assay, P1126-pentamer and CD8 double positive CTL could be detected in PBMC of PDAC patients with MUC4(+) than patients with MUC4(-) , but no significant difference of CTL frequency between patients with HLA-A2(+) and with HLA-A2(-) in MUC4(+) PDAC patients.

In UCB samples, A2/Melan-A(+) CD8(+) T cells were detected at a frequency of 0.04 % , were more frequent in HLA-A2(+) UCB, and were polyclonal and mostly naive.

Oral immunizations of HLA-A,0201 transgenic mice with recombinant SL3261 strains encoding NY-ESO-1 p157-165 or p157-167 induced NY-ESO-1 p157-165-specific CD8(+) T cells detected by an HLA-A,0201 pentamer, and induced a T-cell response detected by an enzyme-linked immunospot assay.

Most important, using HLA-A,0201 pentamer analysis we could detect increased ex vivo frequencies of CD8(+) T-lymphocytes specifically recognizing HER-2(9(828)) in 8 out of 20 HLA-A,0201(+) HER-2/neu (+) breast cancer patients.

HLA-A,1101 and HLA-A,0201 pentamers folded with immunodominant EBV peptides were used to detect EBV-specific CD8+ T cells by flow cytometry in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from 19 haplo-HSCT recipients and the results were compared with those in controls.

Indeed, circulating EPLARLEL-specific CD8 T cells were detected at significant frequencies in HLA-B8+ patients but not in controls by HLA tetramer staining.

MHC class I tetramers containing peptide epitopes are sensitive tools for detecting antigen-specific CD8(+) T-cell responses.

Antigen-specific T cells expressing high levels of CD8 could be detected using HLA-A2 tetramers containing the peptide AAGIGILTV, an epitope which is naturally processed and presented from Melan-A/MART-1.

In contrast, low CD8-expressing, antigen-specific T cells could be detected efficiently only by using a mutated HLA-A2 tetramer with an altered CD8 binding site or, less efficiently, using the wild-type HLA-A2 tetramer loaded with the peptide analogue ELAGIGILTV, which is superior in stimulating antigen-specific T-cell responses.

The present study demonstrates that the quality of the virus-specific CD8(+) T cell responses, as detected by both enzyme-linked immunospot assay and specific MHC-peptide tetramers, changed in relation to the different disease activity in chronically hepatitis C virus-infected patients.

Here, we used fluorescent MHC class I tetramers combined with magnetic enrichment to detect and phenotype AAV8-specific CD8+ T cells in human PBMCs without prior amplification.

Both vaccines stimulated rapid tumor antigen-specific CD8(+) T-cell responses detected ex vivo, however, tumor antigen-specific CD8(+) T cells produced more IFN-γ and exhibited higher lytic function upon immunization with MHC class I and class II epitopes.

Additionally, CD8 MART1 TCRbright T cells were detected in the spleens of mice transplanted with HLA-A2+ thymi but were significantly reduced in the spleens of mice transplanted with swine or HLA-A2- thymi.

By applying peptide-loaded MHC I tetramer-based enrichment, we could detect HBV-specific CD8+ T cells targeting epitopes in the HBV core and the polymerase proteins in the majority of 85 tested cHBV patients with low viral loads.

Immunization of melanoma patients resulted in the generation of cytotoxic CD8+ T cells specific for ALDH1A1, which were detected in circulation by HLA-A0201 MHC dextramers loaded with ALDH1A188-96(LLYKLADLI) peptide.

Binding of fluorochrome-conjugated MHC class I tetramers is a powerful means to detect antigen-specific CD8 T lymphocytes.

Analysis of isolated donor CD8 and CD4 T cell clones activated during the GVHD revealed a polyclonal CD8 T cell response directed against the mismatched HLA-A2 and a polyclonal CD4 T\240\cell response recognizing HLA-A2-derived peptides presented in HLA class II.

In addition, leukemic blasts present at the time of the emergence of GVHD expressed HLA-A2 and HLA class II and could activate both the CD4 and CD8 alloreactive T cells.

We also demonstrate that uveal melanoma MHC II vaccines activate uveal melanoma-specific, cytolytic CD8(+) T cells that do not lyse normal fibroblasts or other tumor cells.

Here we present evidence that IMCgp100 (ImmTAC recognizing a peptide derived from the melanoma-specific protein, gp100, presented by HLA-A,0201) efficiently redirects and activates effector and memory cells from both CD8+ and CD4+ repertoires.

CD8+ and gammadelta T cells, rather than CD4+ T cells, were activated in vivo in patients with active BD and HLA-B51, but not in those with inactive BD, suggesting that these potentially cytotoxic T cells play a critical role in BD flares.

Inflammation is T lymphocyte mediated, although surprisingly CD4+ cells are more active in transferring disease than CD8+ cells, which would be expected to be preferentially activated by Class I MHC peptides.

Allograft-primed CD8 T cells from CCR5-deficient allograft recipients were activated during culture either with proinflammatory cytokine-stimulated wild-type endothelial cells pulsed with the I-A(bm12) peptides or with proinflammatory cytokine-simulated bm12 endothelial cells, indicating their presentation of the I-A(bm12) β-chain peptide/class I MHC complexes.

Major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I chain-related A (MICA) is located in a candidate susceptibility region and activates natural killer (NK) cells, T cells and gammadelta CD8 T cells by its receptor NKG2D.

It has been found that the human major histocompatibility complex class I chain-related antigen AB (MICAB) , the ligand for NKG2D (an activating receptor of NK cell, CD8+ cell and gammadelta T cell) , could be induced by cellular stress.

The major histocompatibility complex class I polypeptide-related sequence A gene (MICA) encodes a membrane-bound protein acting as a ligand to stimulate an activating receptor, NKG2D, expressed on the surface of essentially all human natural killer (NK) , γδ T and CD8(+) αβ T cells.

The major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I-related chain A (MICA) and B (MICB) are ligands for the natural killer group 2 , member D (NKG2D) activating receptor expressed on natural killer (NK) cells, natural killer T (NKT) cells, CD8+ T cells and γδ T cells.

Major-histocompatibility-complex class I-related chain A (MICA) antigens are the ligands of NKG2D, which is an activating or coactivating receptor expressed on human NK cells and CD8+T cells.

The MHC class I-related molecules MICA and MICB are induced by oxidative stress and have been reported to activate NK cells and co-stimulate CD8(+) T cells.

MICA is the ligand for the activating receptor NKG2D, expressed mainly by NK cells and CD8+ cytotoxic T cells.

MICA/B are ligands for the activating receptor NKG2D on NK and CD8 T cells.

MICA is a highly polymorphic ligand for NKG2D activating NK and costimulating CD8+T cells and a ligand for tissue-resident Vδ1 γδ T subsets.

Human dsNKG2D-IL-15 also delayed the growth of transplanted melanoma (B16BL6-MICA) by activating and recruiting mouse NK and CD8+ T cells.

Major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I chain-related gene B (MICB) encodes a ligand for activating NKG2D that expressed in natural killer cells, γδ T cells, and αβ CD8+ T cells, which is associated with autoimmune diseases, cancer, and infectious diseases.

The functional supertype of HLA-A2 was investigated in the presentation of the A,0201-restricted Flu matrix p58-66 peptide to activate recall CD8+ T-cell response.

Certain antigen-presenting cells (APCs) process and present extracellular antigen with major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I) molecules to activate naive CD8(+) T cells in a process termed cross-presentation.

In addition, our findings indicated that HLA-A11svE4 molecules were functional in activating CD8+ T cells through Ag presentation.

Further functional studies reveal that peptide-deficient conformers of HLA-B,35:01 do not directly activate CD8+ T cells, but accumulate at the immunological synapse in antigen-induced responses, and enhance cognate peptide-induced cell adhesion and CD8+ T cell activation.

Using humanized mouse models or primary human CD8 T cells, we also demonstrated that chemotherapy-treated human lymphomas activated VM CD8 T cells independent of tumor-derived MHC class I.

In conclusion, CD8 T cells can be directly activated in an MHC class I-independent manner by chemotherapy-treated cancers, and these activated CD8 T cells may be exploited for developing new strategies to treat MHC class I-deficient cancers.

Major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I chain-related A (MICA) molecules deliver activating signals through the NKG2D receptor expressed on the surface of natural killer (NK) , CD8alphabeta and gammadelta T cells, and the MICA gene is polymorphic.

Exogenous antigens processed in the cytosol and subsequently cross-presented on major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I) molecules activate cytotoxic CD8+ lymphocytes (CTL) , which are crucial in cancer immunotherapy.

Dendritic cells (DCs) present exogenous antigens on major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I molecules, thereby activating CD8+ T cells, contributing to tumor elimination through a mechanism known as antigen cross-presentation.

We conclude that human CD8+ TEM-mediated rejection targeting graft EC class I MHC molecules requires help from CD4+ TEM cells activated by recognition of class II MHC molecules.

They mature upon recognition of pathogens and upregulate MHC molecules and costimulatory receptors to activate antigen-specific CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells.

This approach allows DCs to be exposed to the entire repertoire of tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) originally expressed by the tumor cell, to process them endogenously, and to present antigenic epitopes thought the MHC class I and class II pathways to activate both CD8+ and CD4+ T cells, respectively.

Recipient CD8 T cells are activated and develop cytotoxicity against MHC Class I-deficient donor cells in association with rejection.

These results demonstrate that tumor-specific CD8+ T-cells can be efficiently activated and recruited in the absence of MHC class II molecules and of CD4+ T-cell help.

Divergence between lethal and sublethal infections occurred as early as 2 days postinfection (dpi) , at which point CD8+ T cells from lethally infected AGM expressed activated caspase-3 and simultaneously failed to increase levels of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II molecules, in contrast to surviving animals.

DEC-205+ dendritic cells (DCs) can cross-present the epitope(s) of captured tumour antigens associated with class I MHC molecules alongside co-stimulatory molecules to prime and activate tumour-specific CD8+ CTLs.

WASp-deficient dendritic cells have increased localization and activity of Rac2 to the phagosomal membrane and this allows antigen to be presented on MHC class I molecules to activate cytotoxic CD8+ T cells.

In addition to B cells, acute control required MHC class I molecules, CD8+ T cells, and granzymes, supporting a model whereby B cells act as antigen presenting cells to activate cytotoxic CD8+ T cells.

Naïve anti-viral CD8+ T cells (TCD8+) are activated by the presence of peptide-MHC Class I complexes (pMHC-I) on the surface of professional antigen presenting cells (pAPC).

Elimination of infected cells is achieved by cytotoxic CD8(+) T cells that are activated by MHC I-mediated presentation of pathogen-derived antigenic peptides.

In this study, we identified eight novel MHC-I restricted epitopes derived from a broad range of HBV proteins that were capable of activating CD8(+) T cells.

Here, we identified a donor MHC class II-derived peptide (Du51) that is recognized by TCR-biased CD8+CD40Ig Tregs and activating CD8+CD40Ig Tregs in both its phenotype and suppression of antidonor alloreactive T cell responses.

The immunoproteasome (i-proteasome) enhances antigen presentation for MHC class I molecules to activate CD8+T lymphocyte.

We discuss the importance of major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I) alleles in activating CD8+ T-cell populations that promote control of both HIV and simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) replication.

Cross-presentation initiates immune responses against tumors and viral infections by presenting extracellular antigen on MHC I to activate CD8+ T\240\cell-mediated cytotoxicity.

cDC1s are superior in antigen cross-presentation, a process of presenting exogenous antigens on MHC class I to activate CD8+ T cells.

DCs are unique in their ability to process exogenous antigens via the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I pathway as well as in their ability to activate naive, antigen-specific CD8+ and CD4+ T cells.

Significant correlations existed between viral load suppression and loss of activated CD8+ T cells after 24 weeks in both lymph node and blood, which was mirrored by significantly lowered frequencies of activated peripheral Gag peptide/MHC tetramer+ CD8+ cells.

These markers consist of T cell-specific antigens (CD2, CD3, CD4, and CD8)  activated T cell antigens (CD25 and CD71) , major histocompatibility complex (MHC) antigens (class I and II) , and adhesion molecules (LFA-1 and ICAM-1).

Dendritic cells (DC) are important for MHC class I processing and presentation of peptide epitopes to memory CD8(+) T cells, and could potentially be targeted to activate memory CD8(+) T cells to a broad array of HIV-1 epitopes during ART.

Our results support the concept that MHC class II-positive/Ii-negative (class II(+)/Ii(-)) antigen-presenting cells (APC) present endogenously synthesized vaccine antigens simultaneously by MHC class II and class I molecules activating both CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells.

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 12

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 141
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

To this end, primary human CD4+ T cells were gene transferred with a high-avidity TCR, and were shown not only to bind peptide/MHC class I, but also to effectively kill Ag-positive tumor cells in the absence of CD8alpha.

CD4 is expressed in a correct orientation after its capture by CD8(+) T cells as shown by its detection using conformational antibodies and its ability to allow HIV binding on recipient CD8(+) T cells.

Both CD8(+) T-cells and CD4(+) T-cells transduced with the HLA-A2-restricted TARP-TCR could readily be detected by multimer analysis, indicating that the binding is rather strong, since binding occured also without\240\the CD8 co-receptor of HLA-A2.

We examined the aNKR ligand profiles HIV p24⁺ HIV iCD4s that maintained cell surface CD4 (iCD4⁺) , did not maintain CD4 (iCD4-) and uninfected CD4 (unCD4) T cells for expression of unique long (UL)-16 binding proteins-1 (ULBP-1) , ULBP-2/5/6, ULBP-3, major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class 1-related (MIC)-A, MIC-B, CD48, CD80, CD86, CD112, CD155, Intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM)-1 , ICAM-2, HLA-E, HLA-F, HLA-A2, HLA-C, and the ligands to NKp30, NKp44, NKp46, and killer immunoglobulin-like receptor 3 DS1 (KIR3DS1) by flow cytometry on CD4 T cells from 17 HIV-1 seronegative donors activated and infected with HIV.

Aggregate results in primary cells from up to 4 different blood or skin donors showed that viruses with envelopes from the transmitting partner as compared to recipient envelopes replicated more efficiently in CD4+ T cells, monocyte derived dendritic cell (MDDC)-CD4+ T cell co-cultures, Langerhans cells (LCs)-CD4+ T cell co-cultures and CD4+ T cells expressing high levels of the gut homing receptor, α4β7, and demonstrated greater binding to α4β7 high/CD8+ T cells.

By surveying 58 MHC class II and 224 MHC class I crystal structures in the Protein Data Bank, it becomes clear that CD4 cannot bind to MHC I molecules, nor can CD8αβ or CD8αα bind to MHC II molecules.

In vivo, these CD8+ T cells form direct stable contacts with motile naïve CD4+ T cells, recruiting them to Ag+DC binding and to the formation of ternary complexes, where CD4+ and CD8+ T cells interact with the DC and with one another.

Similarly, treating wild-type mice with a CD47 antibody that blocks thrombospondin-1 binding delayed B16 melanoma growth, associating with increased NK cell recruitment and increased granzyme B and interferon-γ levels in intratumoral NK but not CD8+ T cells.

We found that Nef coprecipitated with and disrupted the expression of molecules with cytoplasmic tails from MHC-I HLA-A2, CD4, CD8β, and CD28, but Nef did not bind to or alter the expression of molecules with cytoplasmic tails from CD80, CD86, and CD1d.

It is generally considered that MHC class I-restricted antigens are recognized by CD8+ T cells, whereas MHC class II-restricted antigens are recognized by CD4+ T cells.

In this study, CD8+ HIV type 1 (HIV-1) envelope-specific CTL clones specific for gp120 were isolated from peripheral blood mononuclear cells of four HIV-infected individuals, all of which recognized the same 25-amino-acid (aa) peptide (aa 371 to 395) , which is partially contained in the CD4-binding domain of HIV-1 gp120.

These CD8(+) T cells specifically recognized HHV-6B-infected primary CD4(+) T cells in an HLA-restricted manner, produced antiviral cytokines, and killed infected cells, whereas HHV-6A-infected cells were not recognized.

A rare population of NY-ESO-1-specific T cells, which we named 19305 DP, expressed cell surface CD4, CD8α, and CD8β but not CD56 and recognized A,02+NY-ESO-1+ cancer cell lines in a CD4- and CD8-independent manner.

In individuals with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection, CD4:CD8 lymphocyte ratio is often recognized as a quantitative outcome that reflects the critical role of both CD4(+) and CD8(+) T-cells in HIV-1 pathogenesis or disease progression.

Mature T helper cells (mostly CD4+ CD8-) recognize antigen in the context of class II MHC molecules, whereas cytotoxic T cells (mostly CD4-CD8+) recognize antigen in the context of class I MHC determinants.

In contrast, the mAb PG164A, not only exclusively reacted with CD4-/CD8high lymphocytes, but it also failed to recognize CD4/CD8 double positive lymphocytes.

This can be provided by CD4 T cells that recognize alloantigen " indirectly" as self-restricted allopeptide, but this process remains unexplained, because the target epitopes for CD4 and CD8 T-cell recognition are " unlinked" on different cells (recipient and donor antigen presenting cells (APCs) , respectively).

In 6 patients with metastatic epithelial cancer, this method led to the detection of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells targeting 18 and 1 neoantigens, respectively, compared with 6 and 2 neoantigens recognized by CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, respectively, when using our standard TIL fragment screening approach.

Indeed, SIV-specific, Mamu-E-restricted CD8+ T cells from RM recognized antigenic peptides presented by all MHC-E molecules tested, including cross-species recognition of human and MCM SIV-infected CD4+ T cells.

CD4+ T cells recognize MHC 2 bound antigens, while CD8+ T cells recognize MHC 1 bound antigens.

In the majority of cases, CD4+ T cells recognize Ag in association with class II MHC molecules, while CD8+ T cells recognize Ag in association with class I MHC molecules.

CD4+ and CD8+ CTL were examined to establish whether the same HIV-1 protein (Env, Gag or Pol) was recognized by both CD4+ and CD8+ CTL with MHC antigen restriction.

In this study, we show that Gag-specific CD8(+) T cells recognize infected CD4(+) T lymphocytes as early as 2 h postinfection, before proviral DNA integration, viral protein synthesis, and Nef-mediated MHC class I down-regulation.

Finally, we highlight how tumor-infiltrating CD4 T cells and dendritic cells interact with CD8 T cells within organized lymphoid-like areas in the tumor and propose a CD8 T cell differentiation model that requires the collaboration of CD4 T cells and dendritic cells.

IL-10 is produced in an autocrine manner by the M2 microglia/macrophages and by virus-specific CD4(+) Foxp3(+) Treg cells interacting with virus-specific non-cytolytic CD8(+) T cells.

CD4+ T cell help to CD8+ T cell responses requires that CD4+ and CD8+ T cells interact with the same antigen presenting dendritic cell (Ag+DC) , but it remains controversial whether helper signals are delivered indirectly through a licensed DC and/or involve direct CD4+/CD8+ T cell contacts and/or the formation of ternary complexes.

If TAA-specific CD4(+) T-cell responses were detected in SKIL cultures, it coincided with TAA-specific CD8(+) T-cell responses.

Using interferon-gamma enzyme-linked immunospot, Mtb39-specific CD8+ T lymphocytes were detected in three healthy individuals with latent tuberculosis infection who also had strong anti-Mtb39-specific CD4+ T cell responses.

\240\Unexpectedly, CD80 and CD86, normally expressed on antigen-presenting cells, were detected on a subset of activated Tregs, indicating a role for these co-stimulatory molecules in regulating the dynamics of CD4+ T cell responses.

Infection of CD3+ CD8+ CD45RA+ cells was detected in 9 of 16 study subjects at frequencies ranging from 30 to 1 , 400 proviral copies/10(6) cells, more frequently than CD3+ CD8+ lymphocytes expressing the RO isoform of CD45 (n = 2 , 70 and 260 copies/10 (6) cells).

This KLR is commonly expressed by human NK cells as well as TCRgammadelta(+) and TCRalphabeta(+) CD8(+) T lymphocytes, but it has been also detected in CD4(+) T cells from rheumatoid arthritis and cancer patients.

Frequent multifunctional HSV-specific effector memory CD62Llow CD44high CD8+ TEM cells were detected in ASYMP individuals compared to more of monofunctional central memory CD62Lhigh CD44high CD8+ TCM cells in SYMP individuals.

Five single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) locating in the regulatory region of porcine CD8A gene were detected and tested for association analysis with seven T lymphocyte subpopulations (proportion of CD4(-) CD8(-) , CD4(+) CD8(+) , CD4(+) CD8(-) , CD4(-) CD8(+) , CD4(+) , CD8(+) , and the ratio of CD4(+) to CD8(+) T cells in peripheral blood) in 382 Large White piglets.

The content of peripheral blood T cell subsets (CD3+, CD4+, CD8+) was detected by flow cytometry, and the ratio of CD4+/CD8+ was calculated.

Although limited in time (four months) , the four-drug regimens correlates with an improved immunological response as measured by the CD4/CD8 ratio or the percentage of activated CD4+ and CD8+ cells.

While EVG/c/FTC/TDF introduction resulted in a stable CD4+ and CD8+ count, residual low-level HIV-RNA viremia, and HIV reservoirs, we observed a significant reduction in both activated CD4+ (p = 0.016) and CD8+ (p = 0.048) T cells, coupled with an increase in IL-2 and IFN-γ release by CD4+ and CD8+ effector memory T cells, and a decrease in cytokine production by terminally differentiated CD8+ T cells following SEB exposure.

HA-1(H)-induced T cells showed the classical phenotype for CD8+ memory effector cells: the phenotype changed from a mixed CD45RA/RO phenotype to an activated phenotype characterized by high expression of CD45RO and no expression of CCR7.

After HLA class I-mismatched stem cell transplantation, allo-HLA-directed CD8 T cell responses can be activated without the help of CD4 T cells if memory CD8 T cells cross-reactive against the allo-HLA class I are present or if naïve CD8 T cells are administered during inflammatory conditions.

Analysis of isolated donor CD8 and CD4 T cell clones activated during the GVHD revealed a polyclonal CD8 T cell response directed against the mismatched HLA-A2 and a polyclonal CD4 T\240\cell response recognizing HLA-A2-derived peptides presented in HLA class II.

Our results demonstrate that the GVHD was mediated by a cooperative CD4 and CD8 response directed against the mismatched HLA-A2 and suggest that leukemic blasts possibly activated this CD8 and CD4 T cell response.

Despite a significant overlap, simultaneous liver-kidney transplant recipients had a lower overall frequency of circulating CD8+ activated CD4+ and effector memory T cells, compared to solitary kidney transplant recipients.

Proportions of activated CD8+ and gammadelta T cells were significantly greater in patients with active BD than in those with inactive BD or healthy control subjects, but the proportion of activated CD4+ T cells did not differ among these 3 groups.

Herein, we demonstrate that primary CD8+ T cells from HLA-B,57/5801 elite suppressors were able to efficiently eliminate resting and activated primary CD4+ T cells shortly after viral entry and prior to productive infection.

AA tumors also exhibited lower intratumoral infiltration of effector immune cells (CD8+, γδT, resting memory CD4+ and activated memory CD4+ T cells) with shorter survival than Whites.

It is well established that paracrine secretion of anti-viral CCR5 ligands by CD8+ and CD4+ T cells can block the infection of activated CD4+ T cells by R5 and dual-tropic isolates of HIV-1.

HRSN had higher naive (CD45RO CD27) CD4 and CD8 T cell numbers and lower percentages of activated (HLADR CD38, CD70) CD4 and proliferating (Ki67) CD4 and CD8 T cells, irrespective of previous episodes of sexually transmittable infections.

Triple therapy was significantly more effective in reducing plasma HIV RNA to undetectable levels, in returning CD4:CD8 ratio to nearly normal levels, in reducing activated cells (CD38) and in increasing naive (CD45RA+CD45RO-) and memory (CD45RA-CD45RO+) CD4 cells.

3) , naive (CD45RO(-) CD62L(+) CD4(+)) , natural regulatory (CD45RO(-) CD25(+) CD127(-) CD4(+)) , activated effector (CD45RO(+) CD38(++) CCR5(+) CD8(+)) , but not activated (CD38(+) HLA-DR(+)) CD4(+) T cells.

, number or functionality of SIV-specific CD8(+) and CD4(+) T cell responses and level of activated and/or CCR5(+) CD4(+) target cells) at the time of challenge correlated with protection from SIV transmission in the AdC-SIV-vaccinated RMs.

Correspondingly, administration of tumor-primed CD4(+) T cells significantly delayed progression of MHC class II(-) ovarian cancers, similarly to CD8(+) T cells only, and directly activated wild-type but not CD40-deficient dendritic cells recruited to the tumor microenvironment.

However, this CD134-independent interaction was not sufficient to render CD8+ T cells permissive to FIV infection, as FIV replicated primarily in activated CD4+ T cells and not in cells negative for CD134 expression.

A greater number of CD8+ T lymphocytes adhered and migrated across activated HBMEC compared to CD4+ T cells.

Previous studies in murine systems have demonstrated that CD8(+) Treg cells down-regulate immune responses in vivo through suppressing activated CD4(+) T cells.

Activated CD8(+) T cells formed fivefold more ring junctions than did activated CD4(+) T cells.

Those cells and especially the CD11c+ CD11b- CD8a+ lymphoid and the CD11c+ B220+ plasmacytoid dendritic cells were activated as shown by up-regulation of CD40 at their cell surface.

Moreover, the addition of IL-15 to CD45RA(-) CD45RO(+) CMV-specific CD8(+) T cells induced CD45RA expression while Ag activated cells remained CD45RO(+).

PD-1/L1 expression in CD8+ T cells was significantly lower in IGHV SHMhigh than in SHMlow patients with activated B-cell-like DLBCL, whereas PD-1 expression in CD4+ T cells and PD-L1 expression in natural killer cells were higher in IGK/LV SHMhigh than in SHMlow patients with GCB-DLBCL.

The glycoprotein CD83 is known to be expressed by different immune cells including activated CD4+Foxp3+ regulatory T cells (Tregs) and CD4+Foxp3- conventional T cells.

These results demonstrate that tumor-specific CD8+ T-cells can be efficiently activated and recruited in the absence of MHC class II molecules and of CD4+ T-cell help.

No differences in 24-week change were seen between arms in CD4 or CD8 T cells, in the CD4/CD8 ratio, or in activated (CD38+HLA-DR+) CD4 or CD8 T cells.

Because the density of CD80 expression is lower on activated T-APCs than on B-APCs, we studied the involvement of CD28 and CD80 adhesion molecules in the generation of CD4+ CTLs.

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 12

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 142
'STAT',bind,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD8'

Because STAT6 is a downstream effector of the IL-4R, and IL-13 binds to the type 2 IL-4R, IL-13 has been proposed as an inhibitor that blocks differentiation of tumor-specific CD8(+) T cells.

Using a state-of-the-art imputation method to analyse the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) region, Ombrello and colleagues narrowed down the association between human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-B51 and Behçet\s disease to a model of five amino acids of the HLA-B molecule involved in the binding of the antigen, the interactions with receptors on CD8 T cells and natural killer cells, and the signal peptide of HLA-B, suggesting a crucial role of the cellular cytotoxicity on this disease.

Statistically significant differences were detected when TLR4 expression by CD4+ and CD8+ T cells was compared to stage of disease.

Using both ELISpot methodology and intracellular cytokine staining for interferon (IFN)-gamma to assess functional status, together with fluorochrome-labeled peptide-major histocompatibility complex (pMHC) class I tetramer analysis to detect the physical presence of CD8+ T lymphocytes expressing cognate T-cell receptors (TCRs) , we observed that the proportion of HIV-specific CD8+ T lymphocytes capable of mounting an effector response to antigen challenge directly ex vivo is related to the kinetics of virus exposure.

Distinct from its action on CD4+ T cells, IL35 signaling in gp130+CD8+ T cells activated the transcription factor STAT3, which antagonized intratumoral infiltration and effector function of CD8+ T cells via suppression of CXCR3, CCR5, and IFNγ expression.

CD80 expression in CTCL cells is strictly dependent on the expression of both members of the STAT5 family, STAT5a and STAT5b, as well as their joint ability to transcriptionally activate the CD80 gene.

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 12

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 143
'STAT',bind,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 142

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 12

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 144
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'STAT';'MHC',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 12

----> event: 'MHC',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 6

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 145
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'STAT';'MHC',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 12

----> event: 'MHC',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 7

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 146
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'STAT';'CD4',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 12

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 10

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 147
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'STAT';'CD4',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 12

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 11

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 148
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 13

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 149
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 13

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 150
'STAT',bind,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 142

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 13

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 151
'STAT',bind,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 142

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 13

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 152
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'STAT';'MHC',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 13

----> event: 'MHC',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 6

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 153
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'STAT';'MHC',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 13

----> event: 'MHC',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 7

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 154
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'STAT';'CD4',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 13

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 10

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 155
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'STAT';'CD4',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 13

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 11

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 156
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 157
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 158
'STAT',bind,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 142

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 159
'STAT',bind,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 142

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 160
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'STAT';'MHC',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

----> event: 'MHC',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 6

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 161
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'STAT';'MHC',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

----> event: 'MHC',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 7

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 162
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'STAT';'CD4',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 10

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 163
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'STAT';'CD4',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 11

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 164
'STAT',bind,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 142

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 165
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 166
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 167
'STAT',bind,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 142

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 168
'STAT',bind,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 142

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 169
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV';'MHC',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

----> event: 'MHC',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 45

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 170
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV';'MHC',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

----> event: 'MHC',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 46

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 171
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 172
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 173
'STAT',bind,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 142

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 174
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 175
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 176
'STAT',bind,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 142

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 177
'STAT',bind,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 142

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 178
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV';'MHC',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

----> event: 'MHC',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 45

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 179
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV';'MHC',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

----> event: 'MHC',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 46

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 180
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 181
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 182
'STAT',bind,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 142

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

To facilitate the evaluation of antiviral CD8 T cell responses to SARS-CoV-2, we generated a publicly accessible database of epitopes predicted to bind any class I HLA protein across the entire SARS-CoV-2 proteome.

SARS-CoV-specific CD4+ T-cell responses were detected in all vaccinees, and CD8+ T-cell responses in approximately 20 % of individuals.

Baseline levels of CD8+ T cells, resting natural killer (NK) cells and activated NK cells are significantly lower in lung tissues with high expression of the SARS-CoV-2 host cell entry receptor ACE2.

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 183
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 184
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 185
'STAT',bind,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 142

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 186
'STAT',bind,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 142

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 187
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV';'MHC',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

----> event: 'MHC',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 45

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 188
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV';'MHC',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

----> event: 'MHC',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 46

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 189
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 190
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 191
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

These results imply that JAK/STAT activation is associated with replication of leukemic cells and that therapeutic approaches aimed at JAK/STAT inhibition may be considered to halt neoplastic growth.

Multiple cytokine receptors signal through Janus kinases (JAKs) and associated signal transducer and activators of transcription (STATs).

High JAK-STAT scores were associated with increased mortality rates in brain and renal cancers, but not in lung and endometrial cancers where hyperactive JAK-STAT signaling is a positive prognostic factor.

The expression of miR-30a, SOCS-1, Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) , signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) , Bcl-2 associated X protein (Bax) , B cell lymphoma-2 (Bcl-2) , toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) , and high-mobility group box 1 (HMGB1) , and the extent of JAK2 and STAT3 phosphorylation were all determined.

Interruption of IL-6/JAK/STAT3 pathway by a JAK inhibitor AZD1480 reverses the pro-metastatic effect of sevoflurane and the associated increase of both activated STAT3 and infiltrated CD11b+ cells in 4 T1 model.

Enrichment function analysis revealed that gene function significantly correlated with JAK3, which was primarily associated with the immune response, JAK-STAT signaling pathway, Ras signaling pathway via several cancer-related kinases, miRNAs, and transcription factors.

Overexpression of mutant JAK1 did not transform primary murine cells in standard assays, but compared with wild-type JAK1, JAK1(T478S) , and JAK1(V623A) expression was associated with increased STAT1 activation in response to type I interferon and activation of multiple downstream signaling pathways.

The activation of both JAK2 and TYK2 was dose- and time-dependent and was associated with rapid tyrosine phosphorylation of a series of STAT proteins including STAT1, STAT3, and STAT5.

JAK2 was associated with STAT5, and IL-12-induced STAT5 phosphorylation was elicited in the absence of JAK3 activation.

However, the JAK-STAT3 pathway is constitutively activated in BIA-ALCL, which in some cases is associated with recurrent somatic mutations of JAK1 and/or STAT3.

JAK inhibition resulting in hair regrowth in some cases supports that AA is associated with the Janus kinase-signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK-STAT) signaling pathway.

Among the genes most frequently mutated in our cohort, only mutations in PTPRT, a phosphatase involved in JAK/STAT signaling, were associated with response status, with deleterious mutations being enriched in non-responders.

Among the proteins in this family JAK2 has been associated with important downstream proteins, including signal transducers and activators of transcription (STATs) , which in turn regulate the expression of a variety of proteins involved in induction or prevention of apoptosis.

Therefore, our findings reveal a mechanism by which JAK1 function and inflammatory signaling may be suppressed in response to metabolic stress and provide a mechanistic rationale for the investigation of AMPK activators in a range of diseases associated with enhanced activation of the JAK-STAT pathway.

Various human malignancies are characterized by excessive activation of the Janus family of cytoplasmic tyrosine kinases (JAK) and their associated transcription factors STAT3 and STAT5.

Here we show that JAK2 inhibitor persistence is associated with reactivation of JAK–STAT signalling and with heterodimerization between activated JAK2 and JAK1 or TYK2, consistent with activation of JAK2 in trans by other JAK kinases.

In addition, all of the phosphorylated STAT3 positive cells were also positive for phosphorylated STAT1, both of which could be inhibited by a JAK2/STAT inhibitor, AG490.

The expression of signaling molecules JAK and JAK3 and the phosphorylated activation of STAT3 and STAT5 in the CD8(+) T cell were analyzed by Western blotting.

Western blot assay showed the protein expression of STAT3, JAK, JAK2 phosphorylated STAT3, phosphorylated JAK1 and phosphorylated JAK2 decreased, while that of SOCS-1 and SOCS-3 increased in HL-60 cells after DAC treatment.

Phosphorylated JAK2 and phosphorylated STAT3 levels were lower in groups PY, RPM, AG490, and LA than in groups VR, NS, and DMSO.

Treatment of both patients\ cells with JAK inhibitors in vitro reduced phosphorylated STAT1 to normal.

In the ZHONGL-CS group, the expressions of JAK2, STAT1, and STAT3 mRNA and the levels of phosphorylated JAK2, STAT1, and STAT3 proteins were reduced.

The role of JAK/STAT activation in cancer has been mostly attributed to direct transcriptional regulation of target genes by phosphorylated STAT (pSTAT) , while the unphosphorylated STAT (uSTAT) is believed to be dormant and reside in the cytoplasm.

Although previous studies have reported the expression of JAK1, STAT3, and phosphorylated STAT3 in hypertrophied ligamentum flavum (LF) , the role of the Janus kinase-signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK/STAT) signaling pathway in hypertrophied LF has not been fully elucidated.

Treatment with STAT3/5 but not JAK1/2 inhibitors reduced survival, levels of phosphorylated STAT3 and Cyclin-D1 and increased apoptosis.

These findings suggest that in EBV-immortalized B cells JAK3 and Tyk2 proteins were constitutively phosphorylated but STAT6 protein was not constitutively phosphorylated.

V2O5 had no effect on expression of JAK3 and STAT5, but did cause an increase in pJAK3 and appeared to lead (trend) to reductions in levels of phosphorylated STAT5.

Moreover, treatment of both JAK3-mutant and wild-type NKTCL cell lines with a novel pan-JAK inhibitor, CP-690550, resulted in dose-dependent reduction of phosphorylated STAT5, reduced cell viability, and increased apoptosis.

Cultured hBSMCs were stimulated with IL-13 in the absence and presence of JAK inhibitor-I (a nonspecific JAKs inhibitor) , tyrphostin-AG490 (a specific JAK2 inhibitor) , WHI-P131 (a specific JAK3 inhibitor) , or tyrphostin-AG9 (a specific Tyk2 inhibitor) , and levels of phosphorylated STAT6 were measured by immunoblot analyses.

Levels of miR-218, IL-6R, JAK3 and phosphorylated STAT3 were compared in ALDH1A1 positive and ALDH1A1 negative cells.

The protein levels of GATA-binding protein 3 (GATA3) , T-bet, p-JAK3, JAK3 phosphorylated signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (p-STAT3) , STAT3, p-NF-κBp65, NF-κBp65, p-IκBα, IκBα in spleen were detected by Western blot analysis.

Indeed, they interact with activated JAK or with phosphorylated receptors, inhibiting the recruitment of STAT, the activation of the JAK enzymatic activity, or inducing the proteasome-dependant degradation of activated JAK or receptors.

JAK2, STAT1, STAT3 phosphorylated (p) STAT1, and pSTAT3 expression were measured by immunoblot.

In addition, treatment with Quercetin at 10  μM, significantly inhibited the phosphorylation of JAK2 and STAT1, and the nuclear translocation of phosphorylated STAT1 in poly (dA:dT)-treated and IFN-γ-primed keratinocytes.

In contrast, treatment of SS tumour cells with the pan-JAK inhibitor pyridone 6 led to downregulation of phosphorylated STAT3 (pSTAT3) , its target genes and induction of apoptosis.

We investigate JAK-STAT5 activation and its relationship to full-length Stat5B (FL-Stat5) and constitutive phosphorylated carboxy-truncated Stat5B (ct-pStat5) in four different strains of mouse.

AG490 suppressed the bone defects healingthe expression level of phosphorylated Jak2 and phosphorylated STAT3, and the number of alkaline phosphatase positive cell at defect area in vivo is lower in experiment group than the control group.

In cisplatin-resistant cells with higher Jak2 and STAT3 expression, cisplatin and ruxolitinib combination dramatically suppressed the cell growth, down-regulated the expression of phosphorylated STAT3 and induced cleaved caspase-3 expression.

JAK1 and STAT1, two important neuregulin proteins, were predicted to be the target genes of micro-125b, and overexpression of micro-125b induced the decrease of phosphorylated JAK1 and STAT1.

Here we demonstrate that ruxolitinib causes incomplete inhibition of STAT5 in JAK2V617F mutated cells due to persistence of phosphorylated serine residues of STAT5b, that conversely are targeted by PI3K and mTORC1 inhibitors.

Consistently, inhibition of miR-155 suppressed the expression of JAK2, STAT3 and phosphorylated STAT3 (p-STAT3).

PN significantly decreases the JAK-STAT pathway by reducing levels of phosphorylated STAT-6 and JAK-1.

We subsequently determined that phosphorylated Jak2 and phosphorylated Stat3 protein levels increased following BP treatment and suppressed with the Jak2 inhibitor, AG490.

The expression of GH receptor (Ghr) , Jak-2, Stat3, Vegf, Hif-1α, Fgf, and Mmp-2 was measured by RT-PCR and protein expression of STAT3 phosphorylated STAT3, VEGF, HIF-1α, and MMP-2 was measured by western blotting.

Inflammatory and fibrotic related proteins such as collagen IV, fibronectin, Janus kinase (JAK)  phosphorylated signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) , protein kinase C beta (PKC-β) , and nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) were also inhibited by MCE treatment in STZ/NA mice.

Increased phosphorylated JAK2 at Tyr1007/1008 (P-JAK)  phosphorylated STAT3 at Tyr 705 (P-STAT3) expressions and increased expressions of BACE1 mRNA and protein in the activated N2a Swe cells were significantly attenuated by taxifolin (10 ~50 μM) , cilostazol (10 ~50 μM) alone and in combination at minimum concentrations.

Treatment of both patient\s cells with JAK inhibitors in vitro reduced phosphorylated STAT1 to normal.

In signaling from gp130, a common signal transducer for the IL-6 family cytokines, STAT3, a transcription factor that contains an SH2 domain is recruited by phosphotyrosines on gp130 and is subsequently phosphorylated by gp130-associated JAKs.

To further explore whether JAK/STAT signaling pathway participated in specific immune responses mediated by CTP-HBcAg18-27-Tapasin, we suppressed the JAK/STAT pathway with pharmacological inhibitor (AG490) in vivo.

5 was confirmed to target STAT5 and STAT6, which participate in the JAK/STAT signaling pathway.

Together these results indicate that IRF1 promotes DNA binding of STAT1, which can in turn participate in a positive feedback loop of JAK-STAT signaling.

JAK/STAT pathway mutations were detected in 8 of 10 (80 %) patients and involved STAT3 (n\240\=\240\7) and JAK3 (n\240\=\240\1).

These signal receptors were mainly connected to downstream Jak-STAT signaling that involved the increased genes (JAK2, STAT3, and POMC) and mTOR signaling pathway, including the decreased genes (CAMKK2, AMPK, and MTOR).

Providing a pan-cancer perspective of clinically-relevant JAK-STAT alterations, this study could serve as a framework for future research investigating anti-tumor immunity using combination therapy involving JAK-STAT and immune checkpoint inhibitors.

STAT2 is indispensable in the JAK/STAT signaling since it is also involved in activation of antiviral activity in the absence of STAT1.

Overexpression of socs1s significantly inhibit the GH and JAK/STAT factor stat3 and the inhibitory effect of SOCS1s on GH may be involved in JAK-STAT signaling pathway.

The activation of STATs involves a family of four tyrosine kinases called JAK kinases.

In conclusion, DOX-induced cardiac toxicity involves stimulation of IL-6, P38, and STAT1 signaling levels whereas the protective effect afforded by AG involves the activation of ERK1/2 and JAK2/STAT3 and inhibition of STAT1.

The canonical JAK/STAT signaling pathway involves the activation of Janus kinases (JAK) or growth factors receptor kinases, phosphorylation of STAT proteins, their dimerization and translocation into the nucleus where STATs act as transcription factors with pleiotropic downstream effects.

We found that more than one JAK kinase is involved in STAT3 activation in prostate cancer lines.

The JAK1 and JAK2 mutations involved highly conserved residues in the kinase and pseudokinase domains and resulted in constitutive JAK-STAT activation and growth factor independence of Ba/F3-EpoR cells.

CP-690550 is expected to overcome these limitations by selectively targeting JAK3, which is expressed generally only in immune cells and is only bound by gamma-chain-bearing cytokine receptors involved in the JAK/STAT signaling pathway.

Mutation of the FERM domain of JAK1, which is critical for cytokine receptor association, or of the single tyrosine of IL-9Ralpha involved in STAT recruitment abolished this activity, indicating that JAK1 mutants need to associate with a functional IL-9Ralpha to activate STAT factors.

Although a member of the STAT family, STAT3 has been reported to be constitutively activated in several v-Src-transformed cells, and it still remains unknown whether Jak molecules, which act upstream of STATs, are involved in the v-Src-induced activation mechanism of STAT3.

The activated Jaks are hypothesized to phosphorylate the receptors as well as a number of proteins involved in cellular signaling including SHC, the p85 subunit of PI 3-kinase, Vav and members of the Signal Transducers and Activators of Transcription (Stats) family of transcription factors.

The current study was carried out to identify the JAK molecule(s) that is involved in the IL-13-induced activation of STAT6 in cultured human bronchial smooth muscle cells (hBSMCs).

Western blot analysis showed that compound 3 significantly down-regulated the expression of phosphorylated STAT3 in both human and mouse colon cancer cells indicating that the mechanism of action for compound 3 may involve the inhibition of JAK3/STAT3 signaling pathways.

The HTLV-I-encoded protein tax constitutively activates interleukin-2 (IL-2) , IL-9, and IL-15 autocrine/paracrine systems that in turn activate the Jak3 (Janus kinase 3)/STAT5 (signal transducers and activators of transcription 5) pathway, suggesting a therapeutic strategy that involves targeting Jak3.

JAKs are involved in different inflammatory and autoimmune diseases, as well as in malignancies, through the activation of the JAK/STAT signalling pathway.

Here, we discuss how JAK/STAT signals affect ILC development and effector functions in the context of immune responses, highlighting the molecular mechanisms involved in regulation of gene expression as well as the potential of targeting the JAK/STAT pathway in inflammatory pathologies.

There is also direct evidence from studies in populations with depressive disorders, suggesting that JAK/STAT pathways may be involved in the pathophysiology of depression and that the inhibition of specific JAK/STAT pathways (i.

2 , rt-hLEP and specific inhibitors AG490 (JAK-STAT inhibitor) were used to explore whether leptin induced oocytes maturation, and found that leptin incubation increased the diameters of oocytes and percentage of germinal vesicle breakdown (GVBD)-MII oocytes, up-regulated mRNA levels of genes involved in oocytes maturation and that leptin-induced oocyte maturation was related to activation of JAK-STAT pathway.

Propofol also suppressed the IL-6-induced phosphorylation of Janus kinase-2 (JAK2)/signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT3) pathway, a cytokine-activated essential transcription factor in Th17 cell development, which occurred concomitantly with the enhancement of suppressor of cytokine signaling-3 (SOCS3) expression involved in the downregulation of STAT3 phosphorylation.

The constitutive activation of STAT3 in human ovarian cancer cells appeared to be mediated by an autocrine cytokine loop involving the IL6 family of cytokines and JAK1 kinase.

Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) is involved in the downstream activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and STAT5 and is responsible for transducing signals for several proinflammatory cytokines involved in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) , including interleukin (IL)-6 , interferon γ (IFNγ) and IL-12.

Moreover, IL-2 signaling was strictly dependent on both JAK1 JH1 and JH2 but in IFNγ signaling JAK1 JH2 rather than kinase activity was required for STAT1 activation.

The ability of inducible regulator suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 (SOCS3) to inhibit Janus kinase-signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK-STAT) signaling requires interaction with specific cytokine receptors, JAKs, and components of the cellular ubiquitylation machinery.

JAKs phosphorylate signal transducers and activators of transcription (STATs) simultaneously with other phosphorylations required for activation, and there are several cellular mechanisms in place to inhibit JAK/STAT signaling.

however, Jak3 is not required for Stat3 activation or for cell transformation in vitro.

Both the kinase and pseudokinase domains of JAKs were required for full activation of the JAKs, and four copies of STAT5 response elements provided the greatest luciferase activity.

The Janus family of tyrosine kinases (Jak1, Jak2, Jak3, and Tyk2) is required for cytokine-induced tyrosine phosphorylation and dimerization of the Stat proteins.

The MOLT4 transfectants with the box1 mutants of the IL-2 receptor beta chain lacking Jak1 association showed IL-2 responsiveness, in terms of activations of Jak3 and Stat5 and induction of cell growth, indicating that Jak1 is dispensable for IL-2-mediated cell growth signaling, and that Jak1 activation is not required for activation of Jak3 and Stat5 in the MOLT4 transfectants.

Although IL-2-induced phosphorylation of IL-2R beta, JAK1, and STAT5 all required the presence of JAK3, IL-4-mediated phosphorylation of JAK1, STAT6, and insulin receptor substrates 1 and 2 did not.

Tyrosine kinases of the JAK family are required for activation of both STAT transcription factors and the ERK/MAP kinase pathway, suggesting a mechanism for the optimization of gene induction via the coordinate activation of multiple transcription factors.

The MOLT-4 transfectants with the mutant beta chains lacking Jak1 association showed IL-2 responsiveness, in terms of activation of Jak3 and Stat5 and induction of cell growth, indicating that Jak1 is dispensable for IL-2-mediated cell growth signaling and that Jak1 activation is not required for activation of Jak3 and Stat5 in the MOLT-4 transfectants.

We describe here a novel function of the Jak kinases, because Jak kinase activity is not only required for Stat activation but also for P13 kinase response to IL-7 in human T cells.

While JAK3 is required for signal transducer and activator of transcription-6 (STAT6) activation in hematopoietic cells, we recently demonstrated that in nonhematopoietic cells JAK2 is required for STAT6 activation for the alternative form of IL-4R.

Most importantly, activation of the JAK3-STAT6 pathway, downstream of IL-4 is required for the acquisition of the dendritic-cell-specific demethylation and expression signature, following STAT6 binding.

Most importantly, activation of the JAK3-STAT6 pathway, downstream of IL-4, is required for the acquisition of the dendritic-cell-specific demethylation and expression signature, following STAT6 binding.

Reconstitution of the IL7 receptor signaling complex in 293 T cells showed that JAK3 mutants required receptor binding to mediate downstream STAT5 phosphorylation.

In this study, we investigated the role of JH2s of JAK1 and JAK3 in IL-2R signaling and show that STAT5 activation requires both JH1 and JH2 of JAK1, while both JH1 and JH2 in JAK3 are specifically required for the cytokine-induction of cellular signaling.

Here, we report that JAK1 is a constitutive TGFβRI binding protein and is absolutely required for phosphorylation of STATs in a SMAD-independent manner within minutes of TGF-β stimulation.

Following the activation of SMADs, TGF-β also induces a second phase of STAT phosphorylation that requires SMADs, de novo protein synthesis, and contribution from JAK1.

These data suggest that activation of the JAK/STAT pathway is critical for the development of ANG II-induced hypertension by mediating its effects on renal sodium excretory capability, but the physiological control of blood pressure by ANG II with a low-salt diet does not require JAK2 activation.

In particular, ten genes including Cyp2j11, Cyp2b10, Cyp3a13, Dhrs9, Socs2, Stat4, Gm13305, Cyp3a44, Retsat, and Cyp26b1 were significantly enriched in the functional categories related to retinol metabolism, linoleic acid metabolism, and Jak-STAT signaling pathway.

Dysregulations in the Janus kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK/STAT) pathway underlie several pathogenic conditions related to chronic inflammatory states, autoimmune diseases and cancer.

Afterward, to define the role of miR-186 in AD, miR-186, IL2, and JAK-STAT related protein (JAK2, STAT3) expressions were quantified.

By studying the activity of EGFR, Src and their downstream signalling pathways including PI3K/PTEN/Akt, Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK, Src/FAK and JAK/Stat, we demonstrated the synergistic interaction between afatinib and dasatinib was not only due to their blockage of different signalling pathways but also the complemental inhibition of the related signalling molecules such as Stat3.

Thus, deficiency of Stat5 results in severe combined immunodeficiency, similar in many respects to deficiency of IL-7R, gammac, and Jak3.

The presence of pan JAK-STAT components in mammary alveolar cells and in Type II Pneumocytes combined with the autoregulation of both STAT1 and STAT5 suggests a prominent role of cytokine signaling pathways in cells targeted by SARS-CoV-2.

Together, these results demonstrate that activation of Jak3 transcription during G-CSF- induced granulocytic differentiation is mediated by the combined action of Sp1 and Stat3, a mechanism also shown to be important in IL-6-induced monocytic differentiation.

The discovery of mutations in JAK2, CALR, and MPL have uncovered activated JAK-STAT signaling as a primary driver of MF supporting a rationale for JAK inhibition.

Demonstration of the involvement of different kinases in LMP1-induced STAT3 activation supports the involvement of the JAK/STAT and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)/ERK signaling pathways in the regulation of STAT3 activation by LMP1.

Accordingly, kaempferol had no effect on STAT6 activation in nonhemopoietic cell lines lacking JAK3 supporting its selective inhibition of IL-4 responses through type I receptors expressing JAK3 but not type II lacking this kinase.

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

In this study, we dissected the specific roles of individual JAK/STAT pathway members on the IFN-γ response, and identified JAK1 as the primary mediator of JAK/STAT signaling associated with IFN-γ-induced expression of antigen-presenting molecules MHC-I and MHC-II, as well as PD-L1 and the cytostatic response to IFN-γ.

These include HLA-B27 and the aminopeptidases (ERAP1, ERAP2, and LNPEPS) , which are involved in antigen processing and presentation to T-cells, and several genes (IL23R, IL6R, STAT3, JAK2, IL1R1/2, IL12B, and IL7R) involved in IL23 driven pathways of inflammation.

Compared with MHCC-97H-ROCK2, the DEmRNAs in MHCC-97H-ROCK1 were involved in the JAK-STAT cascade, the Akt signaling pathway and the activity of several different peptidases.

We found that the Jak/STAT pathways activated by the common gamma chain (CD132) or common beta chain (CDw131) cytokine receptors are not required for MHCII expression in thymic cortical epithelia.

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

In contrast, the increase in HLA-ABC expression by CD8+ lymphocytes was associated with transition from 2 H4+ to 2 H4int status, which suggests that increased HLA-ABC expression occurs at an earlier stage in the acquisition of CD45RO in CD8+ cells than for CD4+ cells.

After treatment, we found that the upregulation of PD-1 and T cell immunoglobulin mucin-3 (Tim-3) expression on CD4+ and CD8+ T cells was significantly associated with a poor clinical outcome in the HLA-A,2402-matched group (p = 0.033 , 0.0282 , 0.0046 , and 0.0068 , respectively).

Lower baseline CD4 T-cell count was significantly associated with presence of HLA-A,24/,33, HLA-B,53, CCR5-CF2 and absence of HLA-A,01/,23 and CCR5-HHA.

Lower 6-month CD4 T-cell count was associated with presence of HLA-A,24 and HLA-B,53, and absence of HLA-A,01 and HLA-B,07/,39.

Moreover, lower 12-month CD4 T-cell count was significantly associated with presence of HLA-A,33, HLA-B,14, HLA-C,08, CCR5-CF2, and absence of HLA-B,07 and HLA-C,07.

Only one cell line, the autoreactive CD4+ T cell clone, UA-S2, which was derived from the synovial fluid, proliferated in a highly specific manner in response to a determinant associated with MHC class II products present on autologous mononuclear cells.

Of note, steady CD4 count associated with HLA-B,81 in HIV-1-infected Africans may depend on the country of origin, as observations differed slightly between subgroups enrolled in southern Africa (Zambia) and eastern Africa (Kenya, Rwanda, and Uganda).

CD4(+) T-cell clones proliferated vigorously with carbamazepine associated with MHC class II but exhibited little cytotoxic activity.

Single cell RNA sequencing (scRNASeq) of CD45+ cells isolated from the CNS revealed that PLX5622 treatment resulted in muted CD4+ T cell activation profile that was associated with decreased expression of transcripts encoding MHC class II and CD86 in macrophages but not dendritic cells.

2 (+) regulatory T cells from conventional T cells and also distinguished CD4(+) T cells selected by the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II molecule I-A(g7) (associated with the development of type 1 diabetes in NOD mice) from those selected by a non-autoimmunity-promoting MHC class II molecule I-A(b).

The CD4+ T cell effector compartment (referred to as " Teff" in this article) has been extensively analyzed, particularly because the HLA genes most strongly associated with T1D are MHC class II alleles that form restriction elements for CD4+ T cell recognition.

In a set of primary melanoma cell populations and correspondingly expanded autologous tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) , we show how MHC class II expression on melanoma cells associates with strong MHC class II-restricted CD4(+) T-cell responses that are specific for tumors.

In conclusion, human hepatocytes induce a CD4+ T cell alloresponse in vitro, which is associated with MHC class II up-regulation on hepatocytes and is susceptible to suppression by Tregs.

In the present study we demonstrate that SIVcpz and HIV-1 group N or O nef alleles down-modulate CD4, CD28, and class I or II MHC molecules and up-regulate surface expression of the invariant chain (Ii) associated with immature major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II.

It is proposed that this conserved polyanion binding site of CD4 interacts with a sulphated glycosaminoglycan chain which is associated with class II major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules containing recently processed antigen.

We found that nef alleles from all SIVsmm lineages down-modulated CD4, MHC-I, CD28 and CD3 and up-regulated the invariant chain (Ii) associated with immature MHC-II molecules in human-derived cells.

Addressing this, we demonstrate that, similarly to the SIVmac239 nef, primary SIVsm and HIV-2 nef alleles down-modulate cell surface expression of human CD4, CD28, CD3, and class I or II major histocompatibility complex (MHC-I or MHC-II, respectively) molecules, up-regulate surface expression of the invariant chain (Ii) associated with immature MHC-II, inhibit early T-cell activation events, and enhance virion infectivity.

A pocket on Nef previously identified as crucial for recruiting class I MHC is also responsible for recruiting CD4, revealing a potential approach to inhibit two of Nef\s activities and sensitize the virus to immune clearance.

In addition, since the majority of these antigens cannot associate with MHC-II they fail to recruit CD4+ T cell help and are referred to as T cell-independent antigens.

Disturbances of major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC I)-and II-related presentation pathways in IEC appear to be involved in an altered activation of CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells in inflammatory bowel disease.

MHC class I recognizing and activating natural killer cell receptors on the surface of CD4+CD28- T cells may be involved in a HLA-B27 mediated co-stimulation of these proinflammatory and cytotoxic cells.

Allergen presentation by Th2 cells through its interaction with their receptors in the presence of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II on B cells and through costimulation involving CD40 and CD40L interactions results in immunoglobulin class switching from IgM to IgE.

We further identified CD4+ conventional DC (cDC) as the subset involved in airway antigen sampling in both strains, however, CD4+ cDC in the susceptible strain were less efficient in OVA sampling and displayed increased MHC-II expression compared with the resistant strain.

MHC class II antigen presentation by B lymphocytes is a multistep process involving (1) Recognition and capture of external Ag by B lymphocytes through their B cell receptor (BCR) , (2) Ag processing, which comprises the degradation of Ag in internal compartments within the B cell and loading of the corresponding peptide fragments on MHC class II molecules, and (3) Presentation of MHCII-peptide complexes to CD4+ T cells.

In the nine HLA-B:Bw4-80Ile-positive patients, we demonstrated a strong viral suppression by KIR3DL1-expressing CD8(+) T-cells that required cell-to-cell contact to switch off the activation signals in infected CD4(+) T-cells.

CMA specifically reversed Nef-mediated down-regulation of MHC-I, but not CD4, and cells treated with CMA showed reduced formation of the Nef:MHC-I:AP-1 complex required for MHC-I down-regulation.

The observed HIV-1 replication enhancement conferred by ECs occurred only in memory CD4+ T cells required expression of major histocompatibility complex class II (MHC-II) molecules by the ECs, and could not be conferred by fixed ECs, all of which are consistent with a requirement for EC-mediated T-cell activation via T-cell receptor (TCR) signaling.

First, the cytolytic activity by CD4+ T cells required high MHC class II expression on melanoma cells, which was not satisfied in a subset of melanomas.

We conclude that human CD8+ TEM-mediated rejection targeting graft EC class I MHC molecules requires help from CD4+ TEM cells activated by recognition of class II MHC molecules.

IFN-γ produced mainly by CD4(+) T cells is required to upregulate MHCII expression by IECs.

We found that Vγ2(+) Cβ(+) cells are positive for either CD4 or CD8 and are selected in an MHC class II- or MHC class I-dependent manner, respectively, thus following the differentiation pathway of αβ and not γδ cells and demonstrating that Vβ V region sequences are not required for selection of an MHC-restricted repertoire.

Under physiological conditions, activation of CD4+ T cells by major histocompatibility complex (MHC) antigen complexes requires engagement of both the T cell receptor and the CD4 molecule.

Previous studies have failed to detect an interaction between monomeric soluble CD4 (sCD4) and class II major histocompatibility complex (MHC) proteins, suggesting that oligomerization of CD4 on the cell surface may be required to form a stable class II MHC binding site.

The membrane glycoprotein CD4 is required for optimal antigen-mediated activation of CD4+ T cells restricted by class II molecules of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC).

Although these CD8+ cells mediate HIV-specific, class I MHC restricted CTL activity, the predominant mechanism for inhibiting virus replication requires neither contact nor MHC matching between the CD8+ effector cells and CD4+ targets.

With its unique specificity for domain 2 of CD4, this antibody potently and broadly blocks HIV-1 infection in vitro by inhibiting a postbinding step required for viral entry but without interfering with major histocompatibility complex class II (MHC-II)-mediated immune function.

However, reduced activity in downregulation of CD4, infectivity enhancement and virion incorporation of a Nef variant (Delta12-39) lacking an amphipatic helix required for binding of a cellular kinase complex and the association of Nef with MHC-I/AP-1 suggested a novel role of this N-terminal motif.

We examined the aNKR ligand profiles HIV p24⁺ HIV iCD4s that maintained cell surface CD4 (iCD4⁺) , did not maintain CD4 (iCD4-) and uninfected CD4 (unCD4) T cells for expression of unique long (UL)-16 binding proteins-1 (ULBP-1) , ULBP-2/5/6, ULBP-3, major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class 1-related (MIC)-A, MIC-B, CD48, CD80, CD86, CD112, CD155, Intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM)-1 , ICAM-2, HLA-E, HLA-F, HLA-A2, HLA-C, and the ligands to NKp30, NKp44, NKp46, and killer immunoglobulin-like receptor 3 DS1 (KIR3DS1) by flow cytometry on CD4 T cells from 17 HIV-1 seronegative donors activated and infected with HIV.

encoded by Zbtb7b) , which suppresses the cytolytic program in major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II-restricted CD4(+) thymocytes and the Runt related transcription factor 3 (Runx3) , which counteracts ThPOK in MHC class I restricted precursor cells and promotes the lineage commitment of CD8αβ(+) cytolytic T lymphocytes (CTL).

The time-dependent expression of CD4, CD8 and endoglin was more strongly related to formation of the CL, whereas MHCII was induced during luteolysis.

In addition, GDNFv resulted in lower predicted clinical immunogenicity compared to GDNFwt, as demonstrated by reduced CD4+ T cell proliferation and reduced IL-2-induced secretion in peripheral blood mononucleated cells collected from volunteers representing the world\s major histocompatibility complex (MHC) haplotypes.

Three-colour flow cytometry analysis was used to quantify blood dendritic cells without previous isolation from whole blood and to study the expression of functional molecules (MHC class II, CD11c, CD83, CD86) by dendritic cells from 30 HIV-positive patients, 15 of whom were treated with combined antiretroviral therapy (viral loads from undetectable to 5.4 log copies/ml, CD4 cell counts 1-1895 cells/mm3) and 11 non-infected controls.

In response to antigenic stimulation, naive MHC-class I restricted and antigen-specific CD8+ CD45RA+ CD28+ T cells undergo clonal expansion, differentiate into CD8+ CD45RO+ memory T cells and convert to CD8+ CD45RA+ CD28- T cells displaying potent immune effector functions upon re-encounter with the nominal antigen.

In a study with mouse models to track the clonal fate of CD4 and CD8 T cells, we discovered that CD8 T cells converted to MHC class I-restricted CD4 T cells without regard to selfness of their antigen specificity.

Class II transactivator (CIITA) induces transcription of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) II genes and can potentially be used to improve genetic immunotherapies by converting non-immune cells into cells capable of presenting antigens to CD4+ T cells.

Coculturing CD8 cells with EC stimulates a sufficient level of endothelial class II MHC expression to subsequently support a CD4 T cell proliferative response.

Major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II molecules present exogenously derived antigen peptides to CD4 T cells, driving activation of naïve T cells and supporting CD4-driven immune functions.

Conventional DCs (cDCs) from schistosome-infected mice upregulated expression of the costimulatory molecule CD40 and were capable of priming naive CD4(+) T cells, whereas plasmacytoid DCs (pDCs) upregulated expression of MHC class II, CD86 and CD40 but were unable to support the expansion of either naive or effector/memory CD4(+) T cells.

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 192
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 193
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 194
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 195
'CD8',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 196
'CD8',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 197
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

This model provides evidence that HBsAg displayed a strong tolerogenic effect on the CD4(+) T cell compartment that is associated with a defect in CD8(+) T cell effector functions in vivo.

Except for the absence of CD4 and CD8, which was associated with undetectable levels of CD4 and CD8 mRNA, the clones were phenotypically indistinguishable from classical CD3+alphabeta TCR+ cells.

In contrast, the increase in HLA-ABC expression by CD8+ lymphocytes was associated with transition from 2 H4+ to 2 H4int status, which suggests that increased HLA-ABC expression occurs at an earlier stage in the acquisition of CD45RO in CD8+ cells than for CD4+ cells.

Increased cytotoxic capacity of HIV-specific CD8+ T-cells associated with efficient elimination of HIV-infected CD4+ T-cell targets has been shown to distinguish long-term nonprogressors (LTNP) , patients with durable control over HIV replication, from those experiencing progressive disease.

In adjusted analyses, entry CD4 cell count and CD4/CD8 ratio were associated with GBD region, sex, entry regimen, duration of ART, and nadir CD4 cell count.

The main aims of this study were to determine whether CD4+ and CD8+ cells are present in the normal chambers of the eye in dogs and to verify the hypothesis that uncomplicated cataract may be associated with the local recruitment of CD4+ and CD8+ cells.

Consequently, CD4+ T-cell, but not CD8+ T-cell, infiltration was a good prognostic factor in cHL, and PD-1 blockade showed antitumor efficacy against MHC-II-expressing cHL associated with CD4+ T-cell infiltration.

These findings imply the importance of CD4+ T cells (but not CD8+ and CD3+ T cells) in SARS-CoV-2 infection associated pneumonia and indicate that CD4+ T cells might be important for the control of SARS-CoV-2.

The analysis outcome indicates that the time-varying CD4 covariate is closely related to the first-phase viral decay rate, but the time to CD4/CD8 decrease is not highly associated with either the two viral decay rates or the CD4 changing rate over time.

In TNFR1-/- mice, reduced CD8-enriched myocarditis was associated with defective activation of CD44+CD62Llow/- and CCR5+ CD8+ lymphocytes.

CCR3 was equally distributed in CD4+ and CD8+ cells, but CCR5 was associated largely with CD4+ cells.

However, we report that CD8(+) lymphocyte depletion is also associated with a dramatic induction of proliferation among CD4(+) effector memory T (T(EM)) cells and, to a lesser extent, transitional memory T (T(TrM)) cells, raising the question of whether an increased availability of optimal (activated/proliferating) , CD4(+)/CCR5(+) SIV " target" cells contributes to this accelerated pathogenesis.

The CD8+CXCR3+/CD8+CCR4+ ratio showed a more marked change associated with disease activity than CD4+ T cells in MS and NMO patients.

Resting natural killer cells and activated memory CD4+ and CD8+ T cells were associated with favourable patient outcome, whereas resting memory CD4+ T cells were associated with poor outcome.

However, these cells exhibited robust proliferative potential showing that expression of CD45RA may not always associate with terminal differentiation and, in fact, may be an indicator of highly functional memory CD8(+) T cells generated after acute viral infections.

Higher percent CD8+ levels during treatment was associated with poorer quality of life and more depression, while higher CD4+ and CD8+ were associated with poorer neuropsychological memory and processing speed performance.

tumor size was negatively associated with numbers of infiltrating CD4+ T cells, CD4+CD127+ T cells, and CD8+CD127+ T cells, and positively associated with numbers of CD4+PD-1+ T cells, CD4+CD25+ T cells, and CD8+PD-1+ T cells.

The difference between CD4 + T-lymphocytes, CD4 +/CD8 + with associated HIV/TB infection, and also in the 1 st and 3 rd HIV/TB subgroups, as compared to those with TB monoinfection, was shown to be significantly more pronounced CD4 + T lymphocytes and a higher index of CD4 +/CD8 + in patients with TB monoinfection.

Moreover, adoptive transfer of CD4+CD45RBhigh T cells from CD83flox/flox/CD4-cretg/wt mice into Rag2-deficient mice elicited more severe colitis associated with increased serum concentrations of IL-12 and elevated CD40 expression on CD11c+ dendritic cells (DCs).

Finally, TCR Vβ spectratyping analysis identified Vβ families within CD4 and CD8 T cells, which were associated with both GvM effects and GvHD, whereas other Vβ families within CD4 T cells were associated exclusively with either GvM or GvHD responses.

We show that, although CD8αα T cells in AGMs maintain functions associated with CD4+ T cells (including Th follicular functionality in lymphoid tissues and Th2 responses in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid) , they also accumulate functions normally attributed to canonical CD8+ T cells.

Transcriptional analysis of tetramer+ CD8+ T cells from treated persons revealed reduced expression of genes associated with activation and apoptosis, with concurrent up-regulation of prosurvival genes including BCL-2, AXL, and SRC Early treatment also resulted in robust HIV-specific CD4+ T cell responses compared to untreated HIV-infected individuals.

Similarly, treating wild-type mice with a CD47 antibody that blocks thrombospondin-1 binding delayed B16 melanoma growth associating with increased NK cell recruitment and increased granzyme B and interferon-γ levels in intratumoral NK but not CD8+ T cells.

Since the tetraspanin CD81 is associated to CD4, the receptor of HIV-1 envelope protein (Env.

2 B4 expression on CD8 T cells was negatively associated with IL-2 production but showed no effect on CD4 T cell function.

Interestingly, the proportions of HIV-1-specific CD8 TSCM cells and total HIV-1-specific CD8 TSCM cells were associated with the CD4 T cell counts during treatment with antiretroviral therapy but not with CD4 T cell counts, viral loads, or immune activation parameters in untreated patients, including controllers.

however, only proportions of IFN-γ-secreting HIV-1-specific CD8 TSCM cells were associated with CD4 T cell counts during antiretroviral therapy.

Consistent with the hypothesis that CD4 T cell proliferation is driven by IL-7 as a homeostatic response to CD4 T cell depletion, levels of phosphorylated STAT-5 were found to be elevated in naive subsets of CD4 and CD8 T cells from patients with HIV infection and in the central memory subset of CD4 T cells.

Here, we investigated whether naive MBP-specific CD8+ T cells recruited to the CNS during CD4+ T cell-initiated EAE engaged in determinant spreading and influenced disease.

These results demonstrate that tumor-specific CD8+ T-cells can be efficiently activated and recruited in the absence of MHC class II molecules and of CD4+ T-cell help.

In vivo, these CD8+ T cells form direct stable contacts with motile naïve CD4+ T cells recruiting them to Ag+DC binding and to the formation of ternary complexes, where CD4+ and CD8+ T cells interact with the DC and with one another.

In view of the preservation of CD8 lineage T cells and functional loss of CD4 lineage T cells in HIV-infected patients, it was suggested that a specific immune recognition event is at the center of the pathogenesis of this syndrome which involves preservation of an unknown antigen in the context of HLA-B27 to CD8 lineage suppressor/cytotoxic T cells.

It is further proposed that CD8+ T cells are involved in the control of the Th1 polarization, which is observed in psoriasis lesions, through a complex interplay between CD4+, CD8+ T cells and cross-presenting dendritic cells.

Except PBMCs, Th2 and CD8+ T cells, the expression levels of the key enzymes involved in glycolysis and HIF-1α were significantly higher in B cells, DCs, Tregs, CD4+CD25-T cells, and Th1 and Th17 cells in MG patients, and the measurement of ECAR and OCR confirmed the metabolic status.

Engineered cancer-specific CD4+ T cells may contribute to protective immunity by a direct pathway involving cancer cell killing, and by an indirect pathway that boosts the function, persistence and memory formation of CD8+ T cells.

The CD4/CXCR4 and CD8alpha/CXCR4 interactions may thus be involved in cellular signaling pathways shared by the CD4 and CD8alpha molecules.

1 monoclonal antibody (mAb) , but not depleting anti-CD4/CD8 mAbs, equalized atherosclerotic burden, suggesting NK cells were involved in the enhanced disease in Cd47 deficient mice.

The CD8α(Neg) DC subset is specialized for MHC class II antigen presentation and is centrally involved in priming CD4 T cells.

Differentiation of CD4(+) helper and CD8(+) cytotoxic αβ T cells from CD4(+) CD8(+) thymocytes involves upregulation of lineage-specifying transcription factors and transcriptional silencing of CD8 or CD4 coreceptors, respectively, in MHC class II or I (MHCII or I)-restricted thymocytes.

CD4+ T cell help to CD8+ T cell responses requires that CD4+ and CD8+ T cells interact with the same antigen presenting dendritic cell (Ag+DC) , but it remains controversial whether helper signals are delivered indirectly through a licensed DC and/or involve direct CD4+/CD8+ T cell contacts and/or the formation of ternary complexes.

Several transcription factors are known to control the emergence of CD4 and CD8 lineages, including the zinc finger proteins Thpok and Gata3, which are required for CD4 lineage differentiation, and the Runx factors Runx1 and Runx3, which contribute to CD8 lineage differentiation.

The data suggest that cytotoxic CD4+ T-cells may play a significant role in immunity to melanoma, and HLA class-I-restricted recognition of melanoma may not necessarily require the CD8 molecule on the lytic T-cell.

Both primary and long-lasting self/TERT-specific CD8(+) T-cell responses induced with Iv-hTERT vector required the presence of CD4 T cells in vivo.

Optimal priming of single-cell gamma interferon (IFN-gamma) production by CD8(+) T cells required CD4(+) T cells and was broadly directed to multiple regions of Gag, Env, and Nef that corresponded to known and predicted major histocompatibility complex class I epitopes.

In the nine HLA-B:Bw4-80Ile-positive patients, we demonstrated a strong viral suppression by KIR3DL1-expressing CD8(+) T-cells that required cell-to-cell contact to switch off the activation signals in infected CD4(+) T-cells.

Both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells are required for the induction of colitis accompanied by activation of both T-cell lineages and DCs, increased expression of mucosal IFNγ, TNFα, IL6, IL1β, and IL12, and decreased frequencies of CD4+FoxP3+ regulatory T cells.

Tumor-specific CD8 T\240\cell responses arose independently of CD4 T\240\cells, but they required Th1-polarized CD4 T\240\cells for efficient tumor suppression.

Thus, CD4 T cells and IFNγ can control tumour growth without direct T-cell killing of tumour cells, and without requiring additional adaptive immune cells such as CD8 T cells and B cells.

In summary, our data demonstrate that CD4+ T cells require continuous stimulation for clonal expansion, whereas CD8+ T cells can divide following a much shorter TCR signal.

The ability of primed macrophages to reject allografts essentially requires the help of CD4+ T cells and does not require the help of CD8+ T cells.

We examined the aNKR ligand profiles HIV p24⁺ HIV iCD4s that maintained cell surface CD4 (iCD4⁺) , did not maintain CD4 (iCD4-) and uninfected CD4 (unCD4) T cells for expression of unique long (UL)-16 binding proteins-1 (ULBP-1) , ULBP-2/5/6, ULBP-3, major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class 1-related (MIC)-A, MIC-B, CD48, CD80, CD86, CD112, CD155, Intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM)-1 , ICAM-2, HLA-E, HLA-F, HLA-A2, HLA-C, and the ligands to NKp30, NKp44, NKp46, and killer immunoglobulin-like receptor 3 DS1 (KIR3DS1) by flow cytometry on CD4 T cells from 17 HIV-1 seronegative donors activated and infected with HIV.

This is the first reported case of T-LGLL with dual components of CD4+/CD8dim and CD4-/CD8+ populations in terms of multiple comorbidities related to the respective CD8+ and CD4+ T-LGLLs.

In this study, we demonstrate that suboptimal stimulation of human PBMCs with a low concentration (1 ng/ml) of staphylococcal enterotoxin C1, at which half-maximal T cell proliferation was observed, induced CD8+CD25+ T cells expressing markers related to regulatory T cells (Tregs) , such as IFN-γ, IL-10, TGF-β, FOXP3, CD28, CTLA4, TNFR2, CD45RO, and HLA-DR.

In contrast, anti-CD4+ or anti-CD8+ antibody treatments partially reduced the OAD histopathology and combined anti-CD4/CD8 antibody treatment further abrogated the histopathology of the disease.

Then, CD4 and CD8 cell labelling was combined with CD30, CD27, CD28, CD45RA or CD45R0 staining, detection of intracellular interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) or interleukin-4 (IL-4) and analysis by three-colour flow cytometry.

Changes in CD8(+) subset distribution were studied in 17 subjects with acute human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infection and in 14 subjects with acute Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection, with combined CD45RO, CD27, and CD28 monoclonal antibodies.

Three-colour flow cytometry analysis was used to quantify blood dendritic cells without previous isolation from whole blood and to study the expression of functional molecules (MHC class II, CD11c, CD83, CD86) by dendritic cells from 30 HIV-positive patients, 15 of whom were treated with combined antiretroviral therapy (viral loads from undetectable to 5.4 log copies/ml, CD4 cell counts 1-1895 cells/mm3) and 11 non-infected controls.

In response to antigenic stimulation, naive MHC-class I restricted and antigen-specific CD8+ CD45RA+ CD28+ T cells undergo clonal expansion, differentiate into CD8+ CD45RO+ memory T cells and convert to CD8+ CD45RA+ CD28- T cells displaying potent immune effector functions upon re-encounter with the nominal antigen.

In a study with mouse models to track the clonal fate of CD4 and CD8 T cells, we discovered that CD8 T cells converted to MHC class I-restricted CD4 T cells without regard to selfness of their antigen specificity.

In mesenteric lymph nodes (MLN) , CD8 T cells converted to CD4(+) Foxp3(+) regulatory T (Treg) cells which were enriched in the large intestine lamina propria (LILP) and suppressed chemical- or immune-mediated inflammatory damage.

IL-12p70 polarizes T cell responses towards CD4+ T helper 1 cells, which then support the development of CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes.

Our study suggest that CD40 activation supports the generation of tumor-specific CD8+ Tscm, thus providing new insight into cancer immunotherapy.

Rather, CD49a supports CD8+ TRM persistence within skin, regulates epidermal CD8+ TRM dendritic extensions, and increases the frequency of IFN-γ+ CD8+ TRM following local antigen challenge.

Cytotoxicity in dual-costimulated CD4 T cells depends on the T-box transcription factor eomesodermin (Eomes) , which we report is induced via a mechanism that does not rely on IL-2, in contrast to CD8+ CTL, but rather depends on the CD8 T cell lineage commitment transcription factor Runx3, which supports Eomes expression in mature CD8+ CTLs.

Further analysis showed that CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells exhibited distinct preferences for certain amino acids in the CDR3, and this was confirmed further by a support vector machine classifier, suggesting that there are distinct and discernible differences between TCRβ CDR3 in CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells.

We hypothesized that toll-like receptor (TLR) 3 agonist polyICLC or TLR4 agonist lipopolysaccharide (LPS) , combined with CD4 T cell activation, would support strong and durable CD8+ T cell responses, whereas addition of an incomplete Freund\s adjuvant (IFA) would reduce magnitude and persistence of immune responses.

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 198
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 199
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 200
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 201
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 202
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 203
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

In NK-DC co-culture, the possession of HLA-C2 by DC was associated with anti-inflammatory cytokine production (IL-1RA/IL-6) , diminished DC maturation (CD86, HLA-DR) , and absent CCR7 expression.

In contrast, the increase in HLA-ABC expression by CD8+ lymphocytes was associated with transition from 2 H4+ to 2 H4int status, which suggests that increased HLA-ABC expression occurs at an earlier stage in the acquisition of CD45RO in CD8+ cells than for CD4+ cells.

Depletion of CD8 cells was associated with an increased risk of rejection with either HLA-DRB1 disparity or with HLA-A or-B disparity.

After treatment, we found that the upregulation of PD-1 and T cell immunoglobulin mucin-3 (Tim-3) expression on CD4+ and CD8+ T cells was significantly associated with a poor clinical outcome in the HLA-A,2402-matched group (p = 0.033 , 0.0282 , 0.0046 , and 0.0068 , respectively).

Freshly isolated and purified CD8(+) cells when tested, also recognized the epitopes, as measured by IFN assay, when presented by transporter associated with antigen-processing (TAP) deficient T2 cells in an MHC-I restricted fashion.

CD8(+) T cells were found in lesions of responders associated with the presence of HLA-A2 molecules and tyrosinase.

Low CD8(+) T-lymphocytes were associated with HLA-A,03-A-A-T in Porto and Alabama patients but not in the greater series from Nord-Trøndelag.

A high CD8+ tumor infiltration was strongly associated with clinical benefit only when the tumors retained good expression of HLA-A and HLA-B/C (p=0.

We examined HIV-specific CD8 T-cell responses in HIV-infected adolescents carrying either an HLA class I allele associated with a favorable prognosis (HLA-B,57) or an allele associated with usual disease progression (HLA-B,35 or HLA-B,53) using interferon-gamma ELISpot and ICS assays.

This LLW-7I superagonist is an example of improved functionality in human CD8 T cells associated with optimized ligand rigidity for TCR binding and not with changes in TCR:pMHC off-rate kinetics.

Here, we report that Hsp60sp-specific CD8+ T cells killed malignant lymphocytes in vitro independently of transporter associated with antigen processing (TAP) and classical MHC-I expression.

Previous results from a genomewide association study of CRS were screened for polymorphisms in the CD8A, TAP1, TAP2, and TAPBP genes associated with MHC1 immunodeficiency syndrome.

tuberculosis reactive CD8 T cells typically recognize peptides associated to classical MHC class Ia molecules, but little information is available on CD8 T cells recognizing M.

Collectively, our studies have revealed a critical role of Vps34 in the regulation of CD8α+ DC homeostasis and in the capacity of these cells to process and present antigens associated with apoptotic cells to MHC class I-restricted T cells.

Among additional known mechanisms involved in tumor resistance to CD8 T-cell immunity, alterations in transporter associated with antigen processing (TAP) play a major role by inducing a sharp decrease in surface expression of MHC-I/β2m-peptide complexes, enabling malignant cells to evade cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL)-mediated killing.

These results indicate higher selective pressure on overall CD8+ T-cell targets associated with the protective MHC-I haplotype, suggesting a pattern of HIV/SIV control by multiple target-specific CD8+ T-cell responses.

All the patients, regardless of whether they had been treated with zidovudine, had inflammatory myopathy characterized by degenerating fibers, cytoplasmic bodies, and endomysial infiltrates consisting of CD8+ cells (mean +/- SD, 60.7 +/- 6.4 percent) and macrophages (39.2 +/- 6.4 percent) associated with Class I major histocompatibility complex (MHC-I) antigens (HLA-A,-B, and-C antigens) in the muscle fibers.

Potential MHC-I-restricted Aβ-derived epitopes were first analyzed for their capacity to recruit functional CD8(+) T cell responses in mouse models.

This effect was lost in CD8(-/-) and CCR2(-/-) mice and when mice were treated with β(2)-microglobulin-deficient GIFT-21 DCs, indicating that GIFT-21 DCs migrated to and sampled from the tumors to present tumor Ags to CCL2 recruited CD8(+) T cells via MHC class I.

Human dsNKG2D-IL-15 also delayed the growth of transplanted melanoma (B16BL6-MICA) by activating and recruiting mouse NK and CD8+ T cells.

Confocal fluorescence microscopy and fluorescence resonance energy transfer flow cytometry demonstrate CD8 is recruited to the site of TCR:peptide MHC binding.

These results demonstrate that tumor-specific CD8+ T-cells can be efficiently activated and recruited in the absence of MHC class II molecules and of CD4+ T-cell help.

These results show that the MHC region is involved in the genetic regulation of CD8(+) T-cell numbers in humans.

We investigated CD8+ T immune responses to BKV LTag portions involved in p53 binding in HLA-A,0201+ BKV LTag experienced individuals.

The canonical role of major histocompatibility complex class I (MHCI) molecules in antigen presentation involves the recognition of a short peptide of intracellular origin, bound to the upper surface of the class I molecule, by CD8(+) T lymphocytes.

HLA-B,57 control of HIV involves enhanced CD8+ T cell responses against infected cells, but extensive heterogeneity exists in the level of HIV control among B,57+ individuals.

Very recent data strongly indicate that HLA-Cw,0602 is the susceptibility allele in this locus, a finding that is consistent with the notion that the pathogenesis of psoriasis involves autoantigen recognition by epidermal CD8+ T lymphocytes.

Suppression of SIV replication by unstimulated CD8(+) T cells required direct contact and was major histocompatibility complex (MHC) restricted.

Although a role for CD8(+) T cells has not been excluded, they are not required in the HLA-B27 transgenic rat model, and do not dominate at sites of disease in humans.

Abacavir adverse reactions were recently shown to be driven by drug-specific activation of cytokine-producing, cytotoxic CD8(+) T cells that required HLA-B,57:01 molecules for their function.

This ability is not restricted to protective HLA-B haplotypes, does not require proliferation or the addition of exogenous factors, is not restored by HAART, and primarily originates from effector CD8(+) T-cells with otherwise limited functional capability.

Major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC I) positive selection of CD8+ T cells in the thymus requires that T cell antigen receptor (TCR) signaling end in time for cytokines to induce Runx3d, the CD8-lineage transcription factor.

We found that Vγ2(+) Cβ(+) cells are positive for either CD4 or CD8 and are selected in an MHC class II- or MHC class I-dependent manner, respectively, thus following the differentiation pathway of αβ and not γδ cells and demonstrating that Vβ V region sequences are not required for selection of an MHC-restricted repertoire.

While CD8+ T cell recovery required MHC class I expression in the host, the reconstitution occurred independently of MHC class I, MHC class II, or CD80/CD86 expression on B cells.

There is an early (within seconds) interaction between CD3ζ and the coreceptor CD8 that is independent of the binding of CD8 to MHC, but that requires CD8 association with Lck.

Despite the strong association with MHC class I, CD8+ T cells are not required for disease induction in the HLA-B27/Huβ2m transgenic rats.

Although these CD8+ cells mediate HIV-specific, class I MHC restricted CTL activity, the predominant mechanism for inhibiting virus replication requires neither contact nor MHC matching between the CD8+ effector cells and CD4+ targets.

The interaction with AP-1 required for CD28 and CD8β differed from the AP-1 interaction required for MHC-I downmodulation in that it was mediated through the dileucine motif within Nef (LL(164165) AA) and did not require the tyrosine binding pocket of the AP-1 μ subunit.

Activation of CD8+ clones with flucloxacillin was processing-dependent and restricted by HLA-B,57:01 and the closely related HLA-B,58:01.

Frequency of Tax-specific CD8+ T cells in AC was related to proviral load in HLA-A,0201.

Modelling and immunopeptidome analysis delineate how drug HLA-B,57:01 binding and peptide display by antigen presenting cells relate to the activation of CD8+ T-cells.

In the adult cohort, primarily CD8+ T-cell responses related to MHC class I alleles were noted.

The time-dependent expression of CD4, CD8 and endoglin was more strongly related to formation of the CL, whereas MHCII was induced during luteolysis.

To address the role of bone marrow-derived profAPCs in CD8 T-cell priming and memory to mCMV, we have used here a combined sex-mismatched and MHC class-I mismatched dual-marker bone marrow chimera model in which presentation of the IE1 epitope is restricted to donor-derived sry(+) L(d+) cells of haematopoietic differentiation lineages.

In HIV-1-infected women, gonococcal cervicitis was associated with reduced IFN-gamma responses in bulk CD8(+) lymphocyte populations, and intracellular cytokine staining combined with class I major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-peptide tetramer studies, demonstrated reduced IFN-gamma production by HIV-1 epitope-specific CD8(+) lymphocytes.

In response to antigenic stimulation, naive MHC-class I restricted and antigen-specific CD8+ CD45RA+ CD28+ T cells undergo clonal expansion, differentiate into CD8+ CD45RO+ memory T cells and convert to CD8+ CD45RA+ CD28- T cells displaying potent immune effector functions upon re-encounter with the nominal antigen.

In a study with mouse models to track the clonal fate of CD4 and CD8 T cells, we discovered that CD8 T cells converted to MHC class I-restricted CD4 T cells without regard to selfness of their antigen specificity.

CD8-liganded HLA-A2 preference for binding HuD suggests that CD8-HLA-A2 may present a weakly binding peptide for TCR recognition supporting the hypothesis that CD8 increases TCR avidity to weak Ag-s.

However, studies in NOD mice have revealed that through interactions with other background susceptibility genes, the quite common class I variants (K(d) , D(b)) characterizing this strain\s H2 (g7) MHC haplotype aberrantly acquire an ability to support the development of β cell autoreactive CD8 T cell responses also essential to T1D development.

In addition to B cells, acute control required MHC class I molecules, CD8+ T cells, and granzymes supporting a model whereby B cells act as antigen presenting cells to activate cytotoxic CD8+ T cells.

This work describes for the first time the utility of a CPP to enhance MHC-I presentation in a veterinary species and supports the evaluation of CPP fusion proteins in the induction of CD8+ T cell responses in vivo.

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 204
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 205
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 206
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 207
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 208
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 209
'CD4',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 210
'CD4',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 211
'CD4',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 212
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

This model provides evidence that HBsAg displayed a strong tolerogenic effect on the CD4(+) T cell compartment that is associated with a defect in CD8(+) T cell effector functions in vivo.

Except for the absence of CD4 and CD8, which was associated with undetectable levels of CD4 and CD8 mRNA, the clones were phenotypically indistinguishable from classical CD3+alphabeta TCR+ cells.

These data support the hypothesis that declines in frequencies of CD4+ T-cell responses to CMV are associated with an inability to sustain high levels of CMV-specific CD8+ T-cell responses in HIV-1-infected subjects.

In HLA-B27/B57 LTNPs, a lower activation level of their memory CD4 T cells was associated with lower amounts of cell HIV-DNA in each resting memory CD4 subset and were also associated with higher ratios of HIV Gag-specific CD8 T cells per infected resting CD4 T cell (effector/target [ E/T]).

A high PD-1+ CD4+ T-cell count was associated with poor overall survival, PD-1+CD8+ T-cells connect to a favorable outcome.

Chronic carriage of human papillomavirus infection leads to decrease in the CD3+, CD4+, and CD19+ levels associated with an increased CD8+ level and activation of proinflammatory cytokines (IL-2, IL-6, TNF-α) against the background of a decrease in their anti-inflammatory concentration analogues (IL-4, IL- 10) during pregnancy, which, in turn, creates favourable conditions for viral reactivation and subsequently causes reproductive complications and losses.

In immunosuppressed solid organ transplant recipients, a delayed appearance of HCMV-specific CD4+ T cells is associated with prolonged viremia and more severe clinical disease, while in haematopoietic stem cell transplant recipients, it has been suggested that HCMV-specific CD4+ T cells are required for HCMV-specific CD8+ T cells to exert their anti-viral effects.

Nevertheless, antileishmanial therapy caused an increase of CD4+CD25+FoxP3+ T cells in all tissues associated with the decrease of CD8+CD25-FoxP3- T cell percentages.

The main aims of this study were to determine whether CD4+ and CD8+ cells are present in the normal chambers of the eye in dogs and to verify the hypothesis that uncomplicated cataract may be associated with the local recruitment of CD4+ and CD8+ cells.

Interestingly, vaccinated SIV controllers did not present with this aberrant PD-1(hi) CD4 T cell enrichment, and this lack of enrichment was associated with the presence of higher frequencies of SIV-specific granzyme B(+) CD8 T cells within the lymphoid tissue, suggesting a role for antiviral CD8 T cells in limiting aberrant expansion of PD-1(hi) CD4 T cells.

Moreover, the expression level of PTPN6 was positively associated with the infiltration of B cells, CD4+T cells, dendritic cells, and neutrophils and negatively associated with CD8+ T cells and macrophages in BC.

tumor size was negatively associated with numbers of infiltrating CD4+ T cells, CD4+CD127+ T cells, and CD8+CD127+ T cells, and positively associated with numbers of CD4+PD-1+ T cells, CD4+CD25+ T cells, and CD8+PD-1+ T cells.

Even if a combination of chemotherapy and immunotherapy is necessary, using CD4+T cell therapy can better reduce the dose of the associated chemotherapy compared to using combined CD8+T cells and cytokine therapy.

The difference between CD4 + T-lymphocytes, CD4 +/CD8 + with associated HIV/TB infection, and also in the 1 st and 3 rd HIV/TB subgroups, as compared to those with TB monoinfection, was shown to be significantly more pronounced CD4 + T lymphocytes and a higher index of CD4 +/CD8 + in patients with TB monoinfection.

Single cell RNA sequencing (scRNASeq) of CD45+ cells isolated from the CNS revealed that PLX5622 treatment resulted in muted CD4+ T cell activation profile that was associated with decreased expression of transcripts encoding MHC class II and CD86 in macrophages but not dendritic cells.

Lower percentages of activated CD8 and/or CD4 T cells were associated with protective alleles B,57:03 (CD8 T cells,-6.6 % [ P =.

Higher CD4 and CD8 T cell counts, lymphocyte count, and total WBC count were associated with incident DM among both women with and without HIV, although the association of CD8 was not statistically significant among women without HIV.

Consistent with the hypothesis that CD4 T cell proliferation is driven by IL-7 as a homeostatic response to CD4 T cell depletion, levels of phosphorylated STAT-5 were found to be elevated in naive subsets of CD4 and CD8 T cells from patients with HIV infection and in the central memory subset of CD4 T cells.

Here, we investigated whether naive MBP-specific CD8+ T cells recruited to the CNS during CD4+ T cell-initiated EAE engaged in determinant spreading and influenced disease.

In vivo, these CD8+ T cells form direct stable contacts with motile naïve CD4+ T cells recruiting them to Ag+DC binding and to the formation of ternary complexes, where CD4+ and CD8+ T cells interact with the DC and with one another.

Dendritic cells and CD8(+) T cells participate in the pathology of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, including emphysema, but little is known of the involvement of the CD40/CD40L pathway.

The CD4/CXCR4 and CD8alpha/CXCR4 interactions may thus be involved in cellular signaling pathways shared by the CD4 and CD8alpha molecules.

Because the chemokine receptor CCR5 is expressed on Th1 CD4(+) cells, it is important to investigate the expression and function of this receptor on other T cells involved in Th1 immune responses, such as Ag-specific CD8(+) T cells, which to date have been only partially characterized.

Differentiation of CD4(+) helper and CD8(+) cytotoxic αβ T cells from CD4(+) CD8(+) thymocytes involves upregulation of lineage-specifying transcription factors and transcriptional silencing of CD8 or CD4 coreceptors, respectively, in MHC class II or I (MHCII or I)-restricted thymocytes.

The CD8(+) T cell-mediated protective immune response against CSP is dependent on the interleukin loop involving IL-4 receptor expression on CD8(+) cells and IL-4 secretion by CD4(+) T cell helpers.

CD4+ T cell help to CD8+ T cell responses requires that CD4+ and CD8+ T cells interact with the same antigen presenting dendritic cell (Ag+DC) , but it remains controversial whether helper signals are delivered indirectly through a licensed DC and/or involve direct CD4+/CD8+ T cell contacts and/or the formation of ternary complexes.

Several transcription factors are known to control the emergence of CD4 and CD8 lineages, including the zinc finger proteins Thpok and Gata3, which are required for CD4 lineage differentiation, and the Runx factors Runx1 and Runx3, which contribute to CD8 lineage differentiation.

The control of many persistent viral infections by Ag-specific cytolytic CD8+ T cells requires a concurrent virus-specific CD4+ Th cell response.

Finally, mature DCs pulsed with matrix peptide induced CTLs from highly purified CD8+ T cells without requiring CD4+ T cell help.

Subset analysis demonstrated that CD4+ T cells or addition of exogenous interleukin-2 was required for the induction of CD8+ CTL.

However, in the absence of inflammatory conditions, cooperation between CD4 and CD8 T cells likely is required for an effective primary CD8 T cell response directed against allo-HLA class I.

Thus, combinations of CD4(+) Th1 immune interventions and multivalent targeting of HER family members may be required for optimal anti-HER2/neu CD8(+) T-cell-directed immunotherapy.

In addition, adoptive T-cell immunotherapy in transplant patients has shown that the presence of HCMV-specific CD4+ T cells is required for the maintenance of HCMV-specific CD8+ T cells.

Finally, we highlight how tumor-infiltrating CD4 T cells and dendritic cells interact with CD8 T cells within organized lymphoid-like areas in the tumor and propose a CD8 T cell differentiation model that requires the collaboration of CD4 T cells and dendritic cells.

Recovery of the HSV-specific CD8+ T cell population after stress and corticosterone treatment occurred with homeostatic levels of cell division and did not require CD4+ T cell help.

TCR activation of CD4(+) target T cells was required for CD8(+) Treg cells to exert suppressive activity, which was mediated through lysis of CD4(+) targets in a cell contact-dependent manner.

Despite this rapid expression, CD49a is not required for the generation of a primary CD8+ T\240\cell response to cutaneous herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection, migration of CD8+ T\240\cells across the epidermal basement membrane, or positioning of TRM within basal epidermis.

Interestingly, while CD4 T cells were not required for acute control of MHV-68 in the lung, CD8 T cell-mediated control was progressively lost in the absence of CD4 T cell help, leading to viral recrudescence.

CD4+ T cell help is required for the generation of CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) memory.

We conclude that human CD8+ TEM-mediated rejection targeting graft EC class I MHC molecules requires help from CD4+ TEM cells activated by recognition of class II MHC molecules.

Host defense against viruses and intracellular parasites depends on effector CD8(+) T cells, whose optimal clonal expansion, differentiation, and memory properties require signals from CD4(+) T cells.

CD4 T cells are required for complete immune control of long-term infection, in part by providing key signals to dendritic cells that in turn instruct optimal antiviral CD8 T cell responses.

Our findings indicate that CD4+ T-cell help is required to establish an effective antiviral CD8+ T-cell response in the liver during acute viral infection.

In a mouse model achieving fully MHC-mismatched allogeneic bone marrow engraftment with minimal conditioning (3 Gy total body irradiation followed by anti-CD154 and T cell-depleted allogeneic bone marrow cells) , CD4 T cells in the recipient are required to promote tolerance of preexisting alloreactive recipient CD8 T cells and thereby permit chimerism induction.

Memory CD8+ T cell activation within allografts subjected to prolonged CIS requires memory CD4+ T cell stimulation of graft DCs to produce p40 homodimers, but not IL-12 p40/p35 heterodimers.

Furthermore, CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes require activation by CD4+ T cells.

Using murine anti-thymocyte globulin (mATG) in a mouse model of heart transplantation, we previously reported that the homeostatic recovery of CD8+ T cells requires help from depletion-resistant memory CD4+ T cells delivered through CD40-expressing B cells.

Following this initial priming immunization with LAMP/gag DNA, booster immunizations with native gag DNA or the LAMP/gag chimera are equally efficient in eliciting B- and T-cell secondary responses, results in accordance with observations that secondary expansion of CD8+ cells in the boost phase does not require additional CD4+ help.

By affecting the function of CD4+ T-cells and antigen presenting cells that are required for proper CD8+ T-cell maturation, HIV is able to decrease the circulating pool of effector and memory CD8+ T-cells that are able to combat viral infection.

Although these CD8+ cells mediate HIV-specific, class I MHC restricted CTL activity, the predominant mechanism for inhibiting virus replication requires neither contact nor MHC matching between the CD8+ effector cells and CD4+ targets.

Collaboration between proliferating CD4-positive cells and CD8-positive cells may thus be required to produce CTL of the CD8 phenotype.

We examined the aNKR ligand profiles HIV p24⁺ HIV iCD4s that maintained cell surface CD4 (iCD4⁺) , did not maintain CD4 (iCD4-) and uninfected CD4 (unCD4) T cells for expression of unique long (UL)-16 binding proteins-1 (ULBP-1) , ULBP-2/5/6, ULBP-3, major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class 1-related (MIC)-A, MIC-B, CD48, CD80, CD86, CD112, CD155, Intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM)-1 , ICAM-2, HLA-E, HLA-F, HLA-A2, HLA-C, and the ligands to NKp30, NKp44, NKp46, and killer immunoglobulin-like receptor 3 DS1 (KIR3DS1) by flow cytometry on CD4 T cells from 17 HIV-1 seronegative donors activated and infected with HIV.

The analysis outcome indicates that the time-varying CD4 covariate is closely related to the first-phase viral decay rate, but the time to CD4/CD8 decrease is not highly associated with either the two viral decay rates or the CD4 changing rate over time.

To measure CCR5 and CXCR4 chemokine receptor expression on CD4 and CD8 T cells in HIV-1 infection and to relate levels to the distribution of CD45RO memory and CD45RA-naive subsets, measures of disease activity, and response to highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART).

To measure CCR5 and CXCR4 chemokine receptor expression on CD4 and CD8 T cells in HIV-1 infection and to relate levels to the distribution of CD45RO memory and CD45RA-naive subsets after effective HAART.

MRV produced CD4(+) and CD8(+) T-cell gains related to antiviral activity and comparable or even superior in terms of CD8(+) T-cells to naïve patients starting cART.

This is the first reported case of T-LGLL with dual components of CD4+/CD8dim and CD4-/CD8+ populations in terms of multiple comorbidities related to the respective CD8+ and CD4+ T-LGLLs.

encoded by Zbtb7b) , which suppresses the cytolytic program in major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II-restricted CD4(+) thymocytes and the Runt related transcription factor 3 (Runx3) , which counteracts ThPOK in MHC class I restricted precursor cells and promotes the lineage commitment of CD8αβ(+) cytolytic T lymphocytes (CTL).

In contrast, anti-CD4+ or anti-CD8+ antibody treatments partially reduced the OAD histopathology and combined anti-CD4/CD8 antibody treatment further abrogated the histopathology of the disease.

In response to antigenic stimulation, naive MHC-class I restricted and antigen-specific CD8+ CD45RA+ CD28+ T cells undergo clonal expansion, differentiate into CD8+ CD45RO+ memory T cells and convert to CD8+ CD45RA+ CD28- T cells displaying potent immune effector functions upon re-encounter with the nominal antigen.

Coculturing CD8 cells with EC stimulates a sufficient level of endothelial class II MHC expression to subsequently support a CD4 T cell proliferative response.

Depletion of CD4+ but not CD8+ T cells abrogated the IFN-γ ELISPOT response supporting the involvement of CD4+ T cells in the immune response to vaccination.

CCL4-induced antinociception almost disappeared upon CD4+, but not CD8+, lymphocyte depletion with selective antibodies, thus supporting that the release of met-enk from CD4+ lymphocytes underlies the opioid antinociceptive response evoked by CCL4.

These results highlight the importance of developing vaccines that enhance antiviral CD8 T cells at sites of preferential viral replication and support the need for developing therapeutic interventions that limit expansion of SIV(+) PD-1(hi) CD4 T cells at mucosal sites as a means to enhance viral control.

Conventional DCs (cDCs) from schistosome-infected mice upregulated expression of the costimulatory molecule CD40 and were capable of priming naive CD4(+) T cells, whereas plasmacytoid DCs (pDCs) upregulated expression of MHC class II, CD86 and CD40 but were unable to support the expansion of either naive or effector/memory CD4(+) T cells.

Further analysis showed that CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells exhibited distinct preferences for certain amino acids in the CDR3, and this was confirmed further by a support vector machine classifier, suggesting that there are distinct and discernible differences between TCRβ CDR3 in CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells.

DC from mice receiving either myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein-specific CD8+ (MOG-CD8+) or proteolipid protein-specific CD8+ (PLP-CD8+) T cells were rendered inefficient in priming T cell responses from naïve CD4+ T cells (OT-II) or supporting recall responses from CNS-specific CD4+ T cells.

In addition to inflammatory cytokine production, CD4+ T cells also supported the activation and proliferation of CD8+ T cells.

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 213
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 214
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 215
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 216
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

These results show that dysregulation of the Jak-STAT pathway is associated with viral persistence in vivo, and that Jak inhibitors target key events downstream of γ-C cytokine (IL-2, IL-7 and IL-15) ligation to their receptors, impacting the magnitude of the HIV reservoir in all memory CD4 T cell subsets in vitro and ex vivo.

The additional presence of revertant CD4+ T-cells was associated with a milder clinical and immunological phenotype in the second patient, although the role somatic chimerism plays in amelioration of disease phenotype is uncertain, as presence of revertant cells had no effect on residual CD4 cell JAK3 signaling function.

In accordance with this, upon stimulation of endogenous gp130 with a complex of IL-6 and IL-6R, Traf5-/- CD4+ T cells displayed significantly higher amounts of phosphorylated JAK1 than did their wild-type counterparts.

In addition, NIH3T3 cells expressing the CD45RBC transgene had more phosphorylated Jak1 and grew faster than those with the CD45RO transgene.

JAK/STAT-signalling is known to be involved in the regulation of CD4(+) T cells, which critically orchestrate inflammatory responses.

Additionally, inhibition of the H3K27 demethylase JMJD3 in naive CD4 T cells demonstrates how critically important molecules required for T cell differentiation, such as JAK2 and IL12RB2, are regulated by H3K27me3.

The antiviral effect of CD40L required activation of c-Jun N terminal kinases (JNK) 1/2 , but not induction of apoptosis or the JAK/STAT pathway that is necessary for the antiviral effects of IFNs.

Jak3 is constitutively associated with CD40, and this interaction requires a proline-rich sequence in the membrane-proximal region of CD40.

We here present the first case of revertant mosaicism in JAK3 deficiency, manifesting as combined immunodeficiency evolving into predominant CD4+ lymphopenia.

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 217
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 218
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 219
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 220
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 221
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 222
'CD8',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 223
'CD8',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 224
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

In contrast, the increase in HLA-ABC expression by CD8+ lymphocytes was associated with transition from 2 H4+ to 2 H4int status, which suggests that increased HLA-ABC expression occurs at an earlier stage in the acquisition of CD45RO in CD8+ cells than for CD4+ cells.

We found that HLA-C,12:02 was significantly associated with lower plasma viral loads (pVL) and higher CD4 counts and that the HLA-A,29:01-B,07:05-C,15:05 haplotype was significantly associated with higher pVL and lower CD4 counts than those for individuals without these respective genotypes.

, HLA-B,57 and HLA-B,81) previously associated with VL and/or CD4 trajectories in eastern and southern Africans had no obvious impact on CD4:CD8 ratio.

This study sought to examine nevirapine hypersensitivity (NVP HSR) phenotypes and their relationship with differing major histocompatibility complex (MHC) Class I and Class II alleles and the associated CD4 and CD8 T-cell NVP-specific responses and their durability over time.

Here we investigate the relationship between the genotypes of transmitted viruses and prognostic markers of disease progression and show that infection with HLA-B,57/B,5801 escape mutants is associated with lower viral load and higher CD4+ counts.

The CTLs specific for two Pol epitopes presented by HLA-B,5101, one of the HLA alleles associated with slow progression to AIDS, effectively killed HIV-1-infected CD4+ T cells and suppressed HIV-1 replication.

Furthermore, homozygosity for HLA-Bw4 alleles was also significantly associated with the ability to remain AIDS free and to maintain a normal CD4 T cell count in a second cohort of HIV-1-infected individuals with well defined dates of seroconversion.

In HLA-B27/B57 LTNPs, a lower activation level of their memory CD4 T cells was associated with lower amounts of cell HIV-DNA in each resting memory CD4 subset and were also associated with higher ratios of HIV Gag-specific CD8 T cells per infected resting CD4 T cell (effector/target [ E/T]).

Consistent with studies of other cohorts, expression of HLA-B,52:01 was associated with high absolute CD4 counts and therefore a lack of HIV disease progression.

Among the C-clade-infected individuals, we show that HLA-B,52:01 is the most protective of all the HLA-B alleles expressed in the Indian cohort and is associated with the highest absolute CD4 counts.

Despite extensive research on the mechanisms of HLA-mediated immune control of HIV-1 pathogenesis, it is clear that much remains to be discovered, as exemplified by protective HLA alleles like HLA-B,81 which are associated with profound protection from CD4+ T cell decline without robust control of early plasma viremia.

2) and HLA-C single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs, rs9264942 C/C and rs67384697 del/del) , that have been previously individually associated with spontaneous control of plasma viremia, maintenance of high CD4(+) T cell counts and delayed disease progression.

HLA-A02 : 1 and HLA-C04 : 1 were both associated with high viral loads (P = 0.0313 and 0.0001 , respectively) and low CD4 cell counts (P = 0.0008 and 0.0087 , respectively).

We conclude that the HLA-C,18:01 and KIR2DL2+C1 genetic variants are associated with low VL while the C,08:02 is associated with high CD4+ T lymphocyte count among cART naïve Zimbabwean adults with chronic HIV infection.

We previously reported that crosslinking of MHC-II induced the endocytosis of MHC-II, which was associated with decreased surface expression levels in murine dendritic cells (DCs) and resulted in impaired activation of CD4+ T cells.

Consequently, CD4+ T-cell, but not CD8+ T-cell, infiltration was a good prognostic factor in cHL, and PD-1 blockade showed antitumor efficacy against MHC-II-expressing cHL associated with CD4+ T-cell infiltration.

Both mutants upregulated the major histocompatibility complex II (MHC-II)-associated invariant chain and downregulated CD4, MHC-I, and CD28, although with reduced efficiency for the latter.

Our results indicate for the first time that C3 deficiency can prolong MHC-II molecule mismatched skin allograft survival, which is further confirmed to be associated with increased CD4(+) CD25(+) Treg cell population expansion and attenuated Th1/Th17 response.

In two independent cohorts of anti-PD-1-treated melanoma patients, MHC-II positivity on tumour cells is associated with therapeutic response, progression-free and overall survival, as well as CD4(+) and CD8(+) tumour infiltrate.

Finally, the atheroprotective effect of selective MHCII deficiency in pDCs was associated with significant reductions of proatherogenic T cell-derived interferon-γ and lesional T cell infiltration, and was abrogated in CD4(+) T cell-depleted animals.

In a previous study, we found a differentially methylation region (DMR) at MHC HLA-DRB1 that was associated within relapsing-remitting MS (RRMS) patients in CD4+ T cells.

The crystal structure of a complex containing the human CD4 N-terminal two-domain fragment and the murine I-A(k) class II MHC molecule with associated peptide (pMHCII) shows that only the " top corner" of the CD4 molecule directly contacts pMHCII.

We considered the possibility that a structural homology between gp160 and major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules might be associated with the extraordinary affinity that gp120 has for its receptor, CD4.

The first was located in the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) , with multiple SNPs strongly associated with CD4:CD8 ratio (rs2524054, p = 2.1 x 10 (- 28)).

The number of HLA-associated mutations was significantly associated with both CD4 T cell counts (r =-0.318 , P = 0.002) and viral loads (r = 0.36 , P = 0.003).

Mice lacking MHCII in LysM+ or CD11c+ cells maintained systemic antiviral CD4+ T cell responses, but recruited fewer CD4+ T cells into infected lungs.

Using a murine breast tumor line, we showed that MHCII-expressing tumors grew more slowly than controls and recruited more functional CD4+ and CD8+ T cells.

In patients and preclinical models, MHC-II+ tumors recruited CD4+ T cells and developed dependency on PD-1 as well as Lag-3 (an MHC-II inhibitory receptor) , which was upregulated in MHC-II+ tumors at acquired resistance to anti-PD-1.

First, in targeting, it exploits the natural affinity of CD4 for gp120 to target the BsIAb to HIV-infected cells, and second, it recruits and activates, through its anti-CD3 moiety, cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) to lyse target cells in a non-MHC restricted manner.

CD4 is a glycoprotein that is expressed on the surface of a variety of cells of the immune system and is believed to participate in the interactions of these cells with antigen-presenting cells bearing the class II major histocompatibility (MHC) antigens.

Disturbances of major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC I)-and II-related presentation pathways in IEC appear to be involved in an altered activation of CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells in inflammatory bowel disease.

In view of the preservation of CD8 lineage T cells and functional loss of CD4 lineage T cells in HIV-infected patients, it was suggested that a specific immune recognition event is at the center of the pathogenesis of this syndrome which involves preservation of an unknown antigen in the context of HLA-B27 to CD8 lineage suppressor/cytotoxic T cells.

The CD8α(Neg) DC subset is specialized for MHC class II antigen presentation and is centrally involved in priming CD4 T cells.

The continual evolution of the influenza-specific CD4 T cell repertoire involves both specificity and function and overlays other restrictions on CD4 T cell activity derived from viral antigen handling and MHC class II:peptide epitope display.

Dog leukocyte antigen (DLA) class II genes encode major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules that are involved in antigen presentation to CD4(+) T cells.

Class II major histocompatibility complex (MHC) proteins are involved in initiation of immune responses to foreign antigens via presentation of peptides to receptors of CD4(+) T-cells.

Differentiation of CD4(+) helper and CD8(+) cytotoxic αβ T cells from CD4(+) CD8(+) thymocytes involves upregulation of lineage-specifying transcription factors and transcriptional silencing of CD8 or CD4 coreceptors, respectively, in MHC class II or I (MHCII or I)-restricted thymocytes.

The principal MHC class II molecules involved in the presentation of peptides to the antigen specific receptors on CD4+ T cells genes in sheep are derived from DR and DQ genes.

Here, we describe two such tools, NetMHCcons and NetMHCIIpan, for the prediction of peptide binding to MHC class I and class II molecules, respectively involved in the activation pathways of CD8+ and CD4+ T cells.

Genetic predispositions center around the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II loci involved in antigen presentation, the key determinant of CD4+ T cell activation.

We conclude that binding of gp120 to CD4 molecules on T cells may interrupt the sequential cascade of intercellular interaction involving 1) Ag/MHC class II-TCR/CD4, 2) CD40L-CD40, and 3) B71-CD28.

Since MHC class II expression did not influence the degree of conjugate formation by naive or memory CD4 T cells with B cells, CD4-MHC class II interaction does not appear to be involved in binding itself, but may down-regulate the adhesion of memory but not naive CD4 T cells.

In the nine HLA-B:Bw4-80Ile-positive patients, we demonstrated a strong viral suppression by KIR3DL1-expressing CD8(+) T-cells that required cell-to-cell contact to switch off the activation signals in infected CD4(+) T-cells.

The response was MHC class II-restricted required processing of the bacterial antigen, was seen in both CD45RO+ and CD45RA+ subsets, and was not oligoclonal.

Notably, IL-22-mediated keratinocyte-intrinsic MHC class II expression was required for the selective accumulation of commensal-induced IFN-γ, but not IL-17A-producing CD4+ T cells within the skin.

In addition, the expression of MHC class II-restricted antigens by tumour cells is required at the site of successful rejection, indicating that activation of CD4+ T cells must also occur in the tumour microenvironment.

Adoptive transfer of B cells deficient in either MHCII or co-stimulatory molecule CD40, molecules required for B and CD4 T cell interaction, into B cell-deficient μMT-/- ApoE-/- mice failed to increase atherosclerosis.

However, MHC-II blocking anti-I-A/I-E antibody treatment was not able to reduce infarct size indicating that autoantigen recognition is not required for the activation of CD4+ T-cells during reperfusion.

CD4 T lymphocyte activation requires T cell receptor (TCR) engagement by peptide/MHC (major histocompatibility complex) (pMHC).

For both MHCII(POS) and MHCII(NEG) tumors, presentation of tumor-specific antigen by host antigen-presenting cells (APCs) appears to be required for CD4(+) T cell priming.

Sustained signals by interaction between MHC class II and TCR/CD4 is required for commitment to the CD4 helper lineage.

The functional development of IMP CD4(+) T cells requires hematopoietic but not thymic MHCII.

Consistent with this, genetic ablation of MHC II in tumor cells, both in the case of B lymphoma and B16 melanoma, did not preclude rejection of tumors by tumor antigen-specific CD4+ T cells in vivo These findings demonstrate that MHC class II expression on tumor cells themselves is not required for CD4+ T-cell-mediated rejection and that indirect display on host APC is sufficient for effective tumor elimination.

Priming of naive CD8+ and CD4+ T cells by dendritic cells (DCs) requires effective antigen presentation on both MHC class I and II molecules.

Identification of potential epitopes recognised by CD4+ T cells requires prediction of peptide binding to MHC class-II, an obligatory prerequisite for T cell recognition.

Thus, IFNγ-regulated molecules, but not MHC class II or antigen presentation by IECs is required for the early migration of antigen-specific CD4+ T cells into the pancreatic islets.

Proliferation of mature CD4+ T cells during lymphopenia (homeostatic proliferation) requires interaction with endogenous peptide MHC.

Antigen-specific T cell lines may be deleted by a signalling mechanism which involves molecules other than gp120/CD4 but still requires MHC class II restriction.

We examined the aNKR ligand profiles HIV p24⁺ HIV iCD4s that maintained cell surface CD4 (iCD4⁺) , did not maintain CD4 (iCD4-) and uninfected CD4 (unCD4) T cells for expression of unique long (UL)-16 binding proteins-1 (ULBP-1) , ULBP-2/5/6, ULBP-3, major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class 1-related (MIC)-A, MIC-B, CD48, CD80, CD86, CD112, CD155, Intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM)-1 , ICAM-2, HLA-E, HLA-F, HLA-A2, HLA-C, and the ligands to NKp30, NKp44, NKp46, and killer immunoglobulin-like receptor 3 DS1 (KIR3DS1) by flow cytometry on CD4 T cells from 17 HIV-1 seronegative donors activated and infected with HIV.

In addition, GDNFv resulted in lower predicted clinical immunogenicity compared to GDNFwt, as demonstrated by reduced CD4+ T cell proliferation and reduced IL-2-induced secretion in peripheral blood mononucleated cells collected from volunteers representing the world\s major histocompatibility complex (MHC) haplotypes.

Three-colour flow cytometry analysis was used to quantify blood dendritic cells without previous isolation from whole blood and to study the expression of functional molecules (MHC class II, CD11c, CD83, CD86) by dendritic cells from 30 HIV-positive patients, 15 of whom were treated with combined antiretroviral therapy (viral loads from undetectable to 5.4 log copies/ml, CD4 cell counts 1-1895 cells/mm3) and 11 non-infected controls.

We have studied the putative roles of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-associated and cell surface-expressed major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I) molecules in the course of the HIV life cycle by the combined use of MHC-I molecule-positive and MHC-I molecule-negative virus particles and MHC-I molecule-positive and MHC-I molecule-negative CD4+ human cells.

The standard model of Major Histocompatibility Complex class II (MHCII)-restricted antigen processing depicts a straightforward, linear pathway: internalized antigens are converted into peptides that load in a chaperone dependent manner onto nascent MHCII in the late endosome, the complexes subsequently trafficking to the cell surface for recognition by CD4(+) T cells (TCD4+).

Because MHC class II molecules are loaded with lysosomal products for CD4(+) T-cell stimulation, macroautophagy supports intracellular antigen processing onto MHC class II molecules.

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 225
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 226
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 227
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 228
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 229
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 230
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 231
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 232
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 233
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 234
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 235
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 236
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 237
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 238
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 239
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

The results showed that chicken CD8α1 is a key regulator of the expression of genes that are associated and cooperate with transcription factors in the major histocompatibility complex class I and II promoter regions and activates Janus kinase (JAK) 1/2 , signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) , and suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS) 1 signaling-related genes.

In chronic HCV infection, CD8+γ-H2AX+ T lymphocytes are highly differentiated with shortened telomeres, are more frequent within the liver, are associated with severe fibrosis and fail to activate Jak/Stat pathways in response to IFN-α, IL-2 or IL-6, perhaps explaining treatment failure in those with severe fibrosis.

The expression of signaling molecules JAK and JAK3 and the phosphorylated activation of STAT3 and STAT5 in the CD8(+) T cell were analyzed by Western blotting.

Interestingly, our results demonstrated that memory CD8+ T cells from ASYMP individuals expressed a unique set of genes involved in expansion and survival, type I interferon (IFN-I) , and JAK/STAT pathways.

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 240
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 241
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 242
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 243
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 244
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 245
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 246
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 247
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 248
'CD4',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 249
'CD4',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 250
'CD4',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 251
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

In NK-DC co-culture, the possession of HLA-C2 by DC was associated with anti-inflammatory cytokine production (IL-1RA/IL-6) , diminished DC maturation (CD86, HLA-DR) , and absent CCR7 expression.

In contrast, the increase in HLA-ABC expression by CD8+ lymphocytes was associated with transition from 2 H4+ to 2 H4int status, which suggests that increased HLA-ABC expression occurs at an earlier stage in the acquisition of CD45RO in CD8+ cells than for CD4+ cells.

, HLA-B,57 and HLA-B,81) previously associated with VL and/or CD4 trajectories in eastern and southern Africans had no obvious impact on CD4:CD8 ratio.

This study sought to examine nevirapine hypersensitivity (NVP HSR) phenotypes and their relationship with differing major histocompatibility complex (MHC) Class I and Class II alleles and the associated CD4 and CD8 T-cell NVP-specific responses and their durability over time.

In HLA-B27/B57 LTNPs, a lower activation level of their memory CD4 T cells was associated with lower amounts of cell HIV-DNA in each resting memory CD4 subset and were also associated with higher ratios of HIV Gag-specific CD8 T cells per infected resting CD4 T cell (effector/target [ E/T]).

Peptides that bound with slow off-rates to class I alleles, that is HLA-A,0201, were associated with low frequency of CD8+ T cells in PBMCs from patients with tuberculosis.

Single-locus analysis revealed that the HLA-A region was associated with CD8+ T-cell numbers.

HIV-1 and Mycobacterium tuberculosis coinfection caused downmodulation of HLA-A2 expression in human monocyte-derived macrophages associated with resistance to lysis by HLA-A2-restricted CD8+ T cells and failure to restrict the growth of intracellular Mycobacterium tuberculosis.

Moreover, substitutions in position one of the epitope were significantly enriched in HLA-A,11-positive individuals in China and associated with different patterns of CD8+ T cell reactivity.

Here, we show that tumor antigen-expressing cancer cells, which are decorated with pMHCI-IgGs containing a HLA-A,0201 molecule associated with a CMV-derived peptide, are specifically eliminated through engagement of antigen-specific CD8(+) T cells isolated from peripheral blood mononuclear cell preparations of CMV-infected humans.

HLA-B,57 is associated with slower disease progression to AIDS, and CD8+ T cell responses to B,57-restricted epitopes are thought to contribute to this protective effect.

The HLA-B57 allele family is associated with slow progression to disease in HIV-1-infected individuals and restricts a potent CD8 response against the p24 protein.

These results have led to the identification of four new potential T CD8(+) epitopes from p53: 194-203 associating with HLA-B51 and 204-212 , 211-218 , and 235-243 associating with HLA-A24.

HLA-B51 is associated in more than 60 % of the patients and its restricted CD8+ T cell response is clearly correlated with the target tissues.

The results suggest that the control of HIV-1 over approximately 25 years in HLA-B,5101-positive hemophiliacs is associated with a Pol283-8-specific CD8(+) T-cell response and that lack of control of HIV-1 is associated with the appearance of Pol283-8-specific escape mutants.

HLA-B27- and-B57-positive HIV-infected humans have long been associated with control of HIV replication, implying that CD8(+) T cell responses contribute to control of viral replication.

HLA-B27 has been found to be associated with axial involvement either in SA and in PsA patients: it might be involved through presentation of an " arthritogenic peptide" to autoreactive CD8+ T cells or might accumulate in misfolded form and induce production pro-inflammatory cytokines by binding to several innate immune receptors.

MICA expression was associated with CD80, MHC class I and MHC class II up-regulation, secretion of proinflammatory cytokines, and apoptosis inhibition, but was not accompanied by release of MIC molecules in soluble form.

In two independent cohorts of anti-PD-1-treated melanoma patients, MHC-II positivity on tumour cells is associated with therapeutic response, progression-free and overall survival, as well as CD4(+) and CD8(+) tumour infiltrate.

Specific MHC alleles and the degree of MHC heterogeneity are associated with enhanced CD8 T cell function and viral control during human chronic infection.

High MHC class I affinity was associated specifically with immunogenic CD8+ T-cell epitopes.

Such hypothesis is supported by the evidence that class I major histocompatibility complex (MHC) genes are associated with susceptibility to develop PsA and auto-reactive cells, such as CD8 T cells, T helper (h) 17 and plasma cells, have been demonstrated in PsA.

Herein, the tumor growth of melanoma cell lines expressing major histocompatibility complex class I molecules at high levels (MHC-I(high)) was dramatically impaired in TNF-deficient mice, and this was associated with enhanced tumor-infiltrating CD8(+) T lymphocytes.

Both MHC class I and β2-microglobulin expression was reduced or absent in 76 % of PTC specimens and was associated with reduced tumor-infiltrating immune cells, including effector (CD3(+) , CD8(+) , CD16(+)) and suppressor (FoxP3(+)) populations.

We have previously shown that for the majority of antigens, adenoviral vaccines expressing the target antigen fused to the MHC associated invariant chain (Ii) induce an accelerated, augmented, and prolonged transgene-specific CD8(+) T-cell response.

Certain " protective" major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I) alleles, such as B,57 and B,27, are associated with long-term control of HIV-1 in vivo mediated by the CD8+ cytotoxic-T-lymphocyte (CTL) response.

Certain Major Histocompatibility-I (MHC-I) types are associated with superior immune containment of HIV-1 infection by CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) , but the mechanisms mediating this containment are difficult to elucidate in vivo.

These two MHC-I haplotypes are associated with immunodominant CD8+ T-cell responses targeting similar regions of viral Nef antigen.

The first was located in the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) , with multiple SNPs strongly associated with CD4:CD8 ratio (rs2524054, p = 2.1 x 10 (- 28)).

Remarkably, vaccinees expressing MHC-I (MHC class I) alleles previously associated with viral control completely suppressed acute phase replication of the challenge virus, implicating CD8(+) T cells in this control.

Thus, the cell surface expression of Ig-like inhibitory MHC class I receptors is associated with T cell engagement into various stages of the cytolytic differentiation pathway, and the cell surface expression of CD85j or KIR witnesses to the history of qualitatively and/or quantitatively distinct T cell activation events.

Here, we found a protective MHC-I haplotype, 90-10-Id (D) , which is not associated with dominant Gag-specific CD8+ T-cell responses.

We present evidence that CD8 not only modifies the affinity of cognate TCR/pMHCI binding by altering both the association rate and the dissociation rate of the TCR/pMHCI interaction, but modulates the sensitivity (triggering threshold) of the TCR as well, by recruiting TCR/pMHCI complexes to membrane microdomains at a rate which depends on the affinity of MHCI/CD8 binding.

Using a murine breast tumor line, we showed that MHCII-expressing tumors grew more slowly than controls and recruited more functional CD4+ and CD8+ T cells.

In vivo, LPS-pretreated RG2 GSCs expressed higher levels of MHC molecules, CXCL10 and TNF-α and recruited more CD8+ lymphocytes.

These results show that the MHC region is involved in the genetic regulation of CD8(+) T-cell numbers in humans.

Disturbances of major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC I)-and II-related presentation pathways in IEC appear to be involved in an altered activation of CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells in inflammatory bowel disease.

In view of the preservation of CD8 lineage T cells and functional loss of CD4 lineage T cells in HIV-infected patients, it was suggested that a specific immune recognition event is at the center of the pathogenesis of this syndrome which involves preservation of an unknown antigen in the context of HLA-B27 to CD8 lineage suppressor/cytotoxic T cells.

Our results indicate that inhibition of SIV replication by CD8(+) T cells from animals immunized with live attenuated SIV strains involves both MHC-restricted and-unrestricted mechanisms and that MHC-unrestricted inhibition of SIV replication is due principally to soluble factors other than RANTES, MIP-1alpha, and MIP-1beta.

Major histocompatibility complex class I chain-related B (MICB) is a membrane-bound glycoprotein involved in both innate and adaptive immunity through its interaction with NKG2D receptors present on γδ T, αβ CD8(+) T, and natural killer cells.

CD8+ T cell-mediated alloreactivity is generally believed to involve recognition of the alpha1/alpha2 domains of donor-type class I MHC molecules as well as the peptides they bind.

Host CD8 T cell response to viral infections involves recognition of 8-10-mer peptides presented by MHC-I molecules.

MHC class I molecules are predominantly involved in the presentation of antigens from viral proteins to CD8+ T cells of the immune system.

HLA-B,57 control of HIV involves enhanced CD8+ T cell responses against infected cells, but extensive heterogeneity exists in the level of HIV control among B,57+ individuals.

Using a state-of-the-art imputation method to analyse the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) region, Ombrello and colleagues narrowed down the association between human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-B51 and Behçet\s disease to a model of five amino acids of the HLA-B molecule involved in the binding of the antigen, the interactions with receptors on CD8 T cells and natural killer cells, and the signal peptide of HLA-B, suggesting a crucial role of the cellular cytotoxicity on this disease.

Although both proteasome forms generate peptides for presentation by MHC I molecules, the immunoproteasome is the main form involved in providing peptide fragments for priming CD8 T cells.

Differentiation of CD4(+) helper and CD8(+) cytotoxic αβ T cells from CD4(+) CD8(+) thymocytes involves upregulation of lineage-specifying transcription factors and transcriptional silencing of CD8 or CD4 coreceptors, respectively, in MHC class II or I (MHCII or I)-restricted thymocytes.

Here, we describe two such tools, NetMHCcons and NetMHCIIpan, for the prediction of peptide binding to MHC class I and class II molecules, respectively involved in the activation pathways of CD8+ and CD4+ T cells.

Cross-presentation, in which exogenous antigens are presented via MHC I complexes is involved both in the generation of anti-infectious and anti-tumoral cytotoxic CD8(+) T cells and in the maintenance of immune tolerance.

Cross-presentation, in which exogenous antigens are presented via MHC I complexes, is involved both in the generation of anti-infectious and anti-tumoral cytotoxic CD8(+) T cells and in the maintenance of immune tolerance.

Qa-2 and Qa-1 are murine nonclassical MHC class I molecules involved in the modulation of immune responses by interacting with T CD8(+) and NK cell inhibitory receptors.

Our results suggest that the high frequency MHC class I molecule, Mamu-B,01, is not involved in SIV-specific CD8+ T lymphocyte responses.

Suppression of SIV replication by unstimulated CD8(+) T cells required direct contact and was major histocompatibility complex (MHC) restricted.

Research on CD8 T cell-mediated inflammatory diseases requires a better understanding of target epitopes and the constraints placed upon these by major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I binding restrictions, especially those that relate to predisposing alleles.

Specific CD8(+) CTL recognition of melanoma requires expression of MHC class I molecules as well as melanoma-associated peptide epitopes.

CD8(+) T lymphocytes, which are major immune effectors require primary stimulation by dendritic cells (DC) presenting MHC class I molecule-bound epitopes.

We conclude that human CD8+ TEM-mediated rejection targeting graft EC class I MHC molecules requires help from CD4+ TEM cells activated by recognition of class II MHC molecules.

In a mouse model achieving fully MHC-mismatched allogeneic bone marrow engraftment with minimal conditioning (3 Gy total body irradiation followed by anti-CD154 and T cell-depleted allogeneic bone marrow cells) , CD4 T cells in the recipient are required to promote tolerance of preexisting alloreactive recipient CD8 T cells and thereby permit chimerism induction.

Priming of naive CD8+ and CD4+ T cells by dendritic cells (DCs) requires effective antigen presentation on both MHC class I and II molecules.

Using bone marrow chimeras, we showed that HP of naïve CD8+ T cells is primarily regulated by MHC class I on radio-resistant stromal cells, yet optimal recovery of CD8+ T cell counts still requires expression of MHC class I on both radio-resistant and radio-sensitive hematopoietic cells.

Immune surveillance of infected or tumor cells by CD8+ T cells requires that MHC class I molecules present a diverse repertoire of peptides on the cell surface.

Thus, CD8 T cell bystander activation, although independent of cognate Ag, still requires self-pMHC and TCR signaling.

Full activation of CD8+ T cells requires both expression of major histocompatibility complex class I molecules (HLA-ABC) and expression of the T cell costimulatory molecule CD80 or CD86.

Differentiation of CD8(+) CD28(low) Treg cells requires MHC class I expression on radioresistant but not on haematopoietic thymic stromal cells.

Generation of a CD8(+) response to extracellular antigen requires processing of the antigen by antigen presenting cells (APC) and cross-presentation to CD8(+) T cell receptors via MHC class I molecules.

The activation of CD8(+) T-cells requires the uptake of exogenous polypeptide antigens and proteolytic processing of these antigens to octamer or nonamer peptides, which are loaded on MHC-I complexes and presented to the T-cell.

Although CD8(+) T cells are shown to mediate the protective immunity against the liver stages of malaria parasites in mice, whether the direct presentation of malaria antigen by major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I molecules expressed on the liver of infected host is required for anti-plasmodial activity of CD8(+) T cells is still unknown.

We further demonstrate that robust CD8(+) T-cell priming can occur through the cross-presentation pathway but requires the presence of either a strong MHC class II epitope or antibodies to the transgene product.

Later (several minutes) CD3ζ-CD8 interactions require CD8-MHC binding.

Using M1- and M2-polarized macrophages from circulating monocytes, we found that M1-polarized macrophages, with significantly higher IL-12 expression and significantly lower IL-10 and MHC class II molecule expression, was more effective at promoting granzyme B responses in CD8 T cells, and required CD80/CD86 costimulating molecules for optimal responses.

Although HL may be a situation in which defective immune surveillance is restored by anti-PD1 therapy, it challenges our current explanation of how anti-PD1 agents work because MHC-I expression is required for CD8-T-cell-mediated tumour antigen recognition.

Vaccines designed to bring forth CD8+ T cell responses in different racial and ethnic groups will require inclusion of T cell epitopes presented by various MHC class I molecules.

Although these CD8+ cells mediate HIV-specific, class I MHC restricted CTL activity, the predominant mechanism for inhibiting virus replication requires neither contact nor MHC matching between the CD8+ effector cells and CD4+ targets.

Therefore, we conclude that full CD8 memory differentiation requires only a single MHC class Ia chain, ruling out a requirement for MHC class Ib molecules in this process.

Activation of CD8+ clones with flucloxacillin was processing-dependent and restricted by HLA-B,57:01 and the closely related HLA-B,58:01.

Further, we show that the mechanism by which HLA-B,52:01 mediates immune protection is, at least in part related to the inability of HIV to evade the HLA-B,52:01-restricted p24 Gag-specific CD8+ T-cell response without incurring a significant loss to viral replicative capacity.

We examined the aNKR ligand profiles HIV p24⁺ HIV iCD4s that maintained cell surface CD4 (iCD4⁺) , did not maintain CD4 (iCD4-) and uninfected CD4 (unCD4) T cells for expression of unique long (UL)-16 binding proteins-1 (ULBP-1) , ULBP-2/5/6, ULBP-3, major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class 1-related (MIC)-A, MIC-B, CD48, CD80, CD86, CD112, CD155, Intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM)-1 , ICAM-2, HLA-E, HLA-F, HLA-A2, HLA-C, and the ligands to NKp30, NKp44, NKp46, and killer immunoglobulin-like receptor 3 DS1 (KIR3DS1) by flow cytometry on CD4 T cells from 17 HIV-1 seronegative donors activated and infected with HIV.

Culture of PBMC with immobilized NKG2D-specific mAb or NKG2D ligand MHC class I related protein A (MICA) induces the up-regulation of CD69 and CD25 in NK and Vgamma9 Vdelta2 but not in CD8 T cells.

Major histocompatibility complex(MHC) class I related chain A(MICA) expressed on the cell surface of tumor cells functions as a ligand for natural killer group 2 , member D (NKG2D) , an important immunoreceptor expressed on natural killer (NK) , CD8, and γδT cells.

We studied the impact of the 3 amino acid differences between HLA-B,27:05 and the closely related HLA-B,27:02 on the HIV-specific CD8+ T-cell response hierarchy and on immune control of HIV.

One of the mostly occurring tumor-derived soluble NKG2D ligands, the soluble MHC I chain related molecule (sMIC) can impair co-stimulation to CD8 T cells.

encoded by Zbtb7b) , which suppresses the cytolytic program in major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II-restricted CD4(+) thymocytes and the Runt related transcription factor 3 (Runx3) , which counteracts ThPOK in MHC class I restricted precursor cells and promotes the lineage commitment of CD8αβ(+) cytolytic T lymphocytes (CTL).

Taken together, these findings indicated that MHC-I could evoke CIBP by promoting apoptosis of GABAergic interneurons in the dorsal horn, and this apoptosis was closely related to local CD8+ T cells.

To address the role of bone marrow-derived profAPCs in CD8 T-cell priming and memory to mCMV, we have used here a combined sex-mismatched and MHC class-I mismatched dual-marker bone marrow chimera model in which presentation of the IE1 epitope is restricted to donor-derived sry(+) L(d+) cells of haematopoietic differentiation lineages.

3) , and weak HLA-A-MICA expression combined with low CD8(+)/Treg ratio (P=0.

Weak HLA-A-MICA expression combined with low CD8(+)/Treg ratio reveals a patient group with the poorest survival in cervical cancer.

We developed a novel assay for quantifying virus-specific CD8(+) T cells that combines the use of HLA-A2 immunoglobulin-based artificial antigen-presenting cells (aAPCs) for stimulation of antigen-specific CD8(+) T cells in whole blood with quantitative real-time reverse transcription-PCR (qRT-PCR) to detect gamma interferon (IFN-gamma) mRNA.

The authors developed a standardized approach for immune monitoring of antigen-specific CD8+ T cells within peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBLs) that combines direct ex vivo analysis of Melan-A/MART-1 and influenza-specific CD8+ T cells with HLA-A2/peptide multimers and interferon-gamma ELISPOT assays.

Here, we used fluorescent MHC class I tetramers combined with magnetic enrichment to detect and phenotype AAV8-specific CD8+ T cells in human PBMCs without prior amplification.

Using TCR-pMHC binding avidity measurements combined to phenotype and functional assays, we performed a comprehensive study on representative tumor antigen-specific CD8 T-cell clones (n = 454) from seven patients vaccinated with different doses of Melan-A/ELA peptide (0.1 mg vs.

Furthermore, by employing MHC binding algorithms and bioinformatics combined with high-throughput human T-cell screens and tetramers, HLA-class Ia restricted polyfunctional CD8(+) T-cells were identified in TB patients.

In this study, utilizing the Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus-infected mouse model, we observed that through the unusual secondary anchor Ile5, a CD8+ T cell epitope drove the conformational fit of Trp73 on the α1 helix of murine MHC I H-2Kd In vitro renaturation and circular dichroism assays indicated that this shift of the structure did not influence the peptide/MHC I binding affinity.

CD8+ T cells could be detected in close proximity to MICA/B+ cells within multiple sclerosis lesions supporting an in vivo interaction between these immune effectors and stressed MICA/B-expressing oligodendrocytes.

Thus, our findings highlight the ability of HTNV epitope-specific CD8(+) T-cell immunity to control HTNV and support the possibility that the HTNV-NP FA9 peptide, naturally processed in vivo in an HLA-A,02-restriction manner, may be a good candidate for the development HTNV peptide vaccines.

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 252
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 253
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 254
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 255
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 256
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 257
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 258
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 259
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 260
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 261
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified three loci (rs17401966 in KIF1B, rs7574865 in STAT4, rs9275319 in HLA-DQ) as being associated with hepatitis B virus-related hepatocellular carcinoma (HBV-related HCC) in a Chinese population, two loci (rs2596542 in MICA, rs9275572 located between HLA-DQA and HLA-DQB) with hepatitis C virus-related HCC (HCV-related HCC) in a Japanese population.

In contrast, the increase in HLA-ABC expression by CD8+ lymphocytes was associated with transition from 2 H4+ to 2 H4int status, which suggests that increased HLA-ABC expression occurs at an earlier stage in the acquisition of CD45RO in CD8+ cells than for CD4+ cells.

NK cell tolerance occurs upstream of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I mediated education, and is associated with deficient STAT4 phosphorylation.

M1-like macrophages (IFN/LPS-differentiated) from GILZ-/- mice showed higher expression of the M1 markers CD86, MHC class II, iNOS, IL-6 and TNF-α associated with increased levels of phosphorylated STAT1 and lower IL-10 levels, compared to M1-differentiated cells from WT mice.

STAT-1 was constitutively highly phosphorylated on the tyrosine 701 residue in HLA-B27-positive monocytic cells when compared to control cells, even prior to stimulation with LPS or bacteria.

M1-like macrophages (IFN/LPS-differentiated) from GILZ-/- mice showed higher expression of the M1 markers CD86, MHC class II, iNOS, IL-6 and TNF-α, associated with increased levels of phosphorylated STAT1 and lower IL-10 levels, compared to M1-differentiated cells from WT mice.

These include HLA-B27 and the aminopeptidases (ERAP1, ERAP2, and LNPEPS) , which are involved in antigen processing and presentation to T-cells, and several genes (IL23R, IL6R, STAT3, JAK2, IL1R1/2, IL12B, and IL7R) involved in IL23 driven pathways of inflammation.

Compared with MHCC-97H-ROCK2, the DEmRNAs in MHCC-97H-ROCK1 were involved in the JAK-STAT cascade, the Akt signaling pathway and the activity of several different peptidases.

We found that not only IFN-induced but also normal basal expression of MHC I required IFN receptors and signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) 1 , providing genetic evidence for continuous IFN signaling.

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

In this study, we dissected the specific roles of individual JAK/STAT pathway members on the IFN-γ response, and identified JAK1 as the primary mediator of JAK/STAT signaling associated with IFN-γ-induced expression of antigen-presenting molecules MHC-I and MHC-II, as well as PD-L1 and the cytostatic response to IFN-γ.

These include HLA-B27 and the aminopeptidases (ERAP1, ERAP2, and LNPEPS) , which are involved in antigen processing and presentation to T-cells, and several genes (IL23R, IL6R, STAT3, JAK2, IL1R1/2, IL12B, and IL7R) involved in IL23 driven pathways of inflammation.

Mutations in cell surface receptors, signal transduction molecules and transcription factors have been described, including the common gamma chain of the IL-2 (and IL-4, IL-7, IL-9 and IL-15) receptors, the kinase JAK-3, the epsilon and gamma chains of CD3, the protein tyrosine kinase ZAP-70, as well as CIITA and RFX5 involved in MHC class II gene expression.

These findings 1) indicate that inhibition of MHC class II gene expression by TGF-beta involves attenuation of the CIITA gene independently of effects on Janus kinases, 2) provide direct evidence that IFN-gamma activates both Janus and non-Janus protein tyrosine kinases, and 3) identify an accessory pathway of IFN-gamma action involving tyrosine kinases that, unlike the Jak-Stat1 pathway, are impaired by TGF-beta.

We found that the Jak/STAT pathways activated by the common gamma chain (CD132) or common beta chain (CDw131) cytokine receptors are not required for MHCII expression in thymic cortical epithelia.

IFN-gamma signal transduction (Jak/Stat pathway) and class II transactivator (CIITA) are required components for IFN-gamma-stimulated MHC class II expression.

In addition, it is suggested that the IFN-gamma-induction of MHC class II requires PTK activities not only in the primary JAK-signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT) pathway but also in the subsequent pathway mediated by IFN-gamma-induced intermediate proteins.

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 262
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 263
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 264
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 265
'CD8',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 266
'CD8',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 267
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 268
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 269
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 270
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 271
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 272
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 273
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 274
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 275
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 276
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 277
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 278
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 279
'CD4',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 280
'CD4',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 281
'CD4',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 282
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 283
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 284
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 285
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 286
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 287
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 288
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 289
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 290
'CD8',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 291
'CD8',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 292
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

These results show that dysregulation of the Jak-STAT pathway is associated with viral persistence in vivo, and that Jak inhibitors target key events downstream of γ-C cytokine (IL-2, IL-7 and IL-15) ligation to their receptors, impacting the magnitude of the HIV reservoir in all memory CD4 T cell subsets in vitro and ex vivo.

Moreover, JAK3 is also associated with a pre-phosphorylated IL-4Ralpha and CD40.

Recently, CD40 has been shown to associate with JAK3, a member of the family of Janus Kinases, which are nonreceptor protein kinases involved in intracellular signaling mediated by cytokines and growth factors.

In these mice, loss of Jak3 expression was associated with a failure to proliferate in response to antigen receptor crosslinking, the accumulation of T cells manifesting an activated cell surface phenotype, and an increased CD4/CD8 ratio among peripheral T cells, all of which are characteristics that were observed in Jak3-/- animals.

Jak3 is constitutively associated with CD40, and this interaction requires a proline-rich sequence in the membrane-proximal region of CD40.

In accordance with this, upon stimulation of endogenous gp130 with a complex of IL-6 and IL-6R, Traf5-/- CD4+ T cells displayed significantly higher amounts of phosphorylated JAK1 than did their wild-type counterparts.

In B cells isolated from PBMC of AD patients with high serum IgE levels, JAK3 was constitutively phosphorylated at the tyrosine residue, and its phosphorylation was enhanced by the treatment with CD40L and/or IL-4 as was that in splenic B cells of NC/Nga mice with dermatitis and high IgE levels.

JAK/STAT-signalling is known to be involved in the regulation of CD4(+) T cells, which critically orchestrate inflammatory responses.

Additionally, inhibition of the H3K27 demethylase JMJD3 in naive CD4 T cells demonstrates how critically important molecules required for T cell differentiation, such as JAK2 and IL12RB2, are regulated by H3K27me3.

Inhibition of IL-2 signaling via Jak3-Stat5 was required during this step to generate CD4(+) CD25(+) Foxp3(-) cells containing iTreg precursors.

We here present the first case of revertant mosaicism in JAK3 deficiency, manifesting as combined immunodeficiency evolving into predominant CD4+ lymphopenia.

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 293
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 294
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 295
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 296
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 297
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 298
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 299
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 300
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 301
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 302
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 303
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 304
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 305
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 306
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 307
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 308
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 309
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 310
'CD4',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 311
'CD4',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 312
'CD4',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 313
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

The results showed that chicken CD8α1 is a key regulator of the expression of genes that are associated and cooperate with transcription factors in the major histocompatibility complex class I and II promoter regions and activates Janus kinase (JAK) 1/2 , signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) , and suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS) 1 signaling-related genes.

In these mice, loss of Jak3 expression was associated with a failure to proliferate in response to antigen receptor crosslinking, the accumulation of T cells manifesting an activated cell surface phenotype, and an increased CD4/CD8 ratio among peripheral T cells, all of which are characteristics that were observed in Jak3-/- animals.

The expression of signaling molecules JAK and JAK3 and the phosphorylated activation of STAT3 and STAT5 in the CD8(+) T cell were analyzed by Western blotting.

Interestingly, our results demonstrated that memory CD8+ T cells from ASYMP individuals expressed a unique set of genes involved in expansion and survival, type I interferon (IFN-I) , and JAK/STAT pathways.

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 314
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 315
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 316
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 317
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 318
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 319
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 320
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 321
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

Female gender, decreased cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4) count and high adverse childhood experience (ACE) , were significantly associated with current depressive episode, while poor social support, high ACE, physical abuse, contacting HIV infection after birth and disclosure of status, were associated with lifetime major depressive episode.

Enfuvirtide-based salvage therapy induced a progressive restoration of naïve and central memory CD4 T cells associated with a decrease in their activation state, suppression of premature priming for AICD and increased expression of Ki67.

To test whether defective IL-7 signaling could be an etiologic or contributing factor in ICL, peripheral blood mononuclear cells from patients with ICL (median CD4 T-cell count, 160 cells/μL) and healthy controls (median CD4 T-cell count, 582 cells/μL) were evaluated for expression of IL-7Rα chain (CD127) and intracellular phosphorylated STAT-5 (a marker of γc cytokine signaling) after cytokine stimulation.

Sequential formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue sections from 8 CVUE placentas and 10 control placentas were stained by immunohistochemistry with antibodies for CD3, CD4, CD8, CD20, CD25, FOXP3, CD56, CD68, HLA-DR, STAT-1, and phosphorylated STAT-1 [ P-(Y701)-STAT-1].

Consistent with the hypothesis that CD4 T cell proliferation is driven by IL-7 as a homeostatic response to CD4 T cell depletion, levels of phosphorylated STAT-5 were found to be elevated in naive subsets of CD4 and CD8 T cells from patients with HIV infection and in the central memory subset of CD4 T cells.

To investigate interactions between HIV-1 and CD4(+) cells, activated phosphorylated STAT proteins in nuclear extracts from lymphocytic and promonocytic cell lines as well as primary monocyte-derived macrophages were measured.

CD4+ T cells from p53-/- mice decreased the activity of STAT-5, lowered the level of phosphorylated STAT-5, and compromised Treg cell differentiation.

Hematoxylin and eosin slides were examined for the histological grades, and immunohistochemical analysis was carried out using antibodies against CD68 (pan-MΦ) , CD80 (M1 MΦ) , CD163 (M2 MΦ) , CD4 (helper T cells: Th) , CD8 (cytotoxic T cells) , CXCR3, CCR5 (Th1) , CCR4 (Th2) , signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT1)  phosphorylated STAT1 (pSTAT1) and chemokine CXCL9.

Upon IFN-γ stimulation, the \ normal\ level CD4+ T cells were more efficiently phosphorylated than those from WT mice, whereas the \ high\ level CD4+ T cells were not, suggesting that the level of STAT1 protein does not directly correlate with the level of pSTAT1 in the SI.

Our study demonstrates that G6b-B expression is highly restricted to peripheral CD4+ T cells and up-regulated by the IL-4-induced STAT6 pathway, strongly suggesting that G6b-B is involved in regulation of the immune response by CD4+ T cell-mediated and IL-4 induced regulatory mechanisms.

Therefore, immunosurveillance in STAT6(-/-) mice facilitates survival against metastatic cancer via an IFN-gamma-dependent mechanism involving hemopoietic and nonhemopoietic derived cells, and is not exclusively dependent on counteracting IL-13 or CD4(+) CD25(+) T cells.

Different from naive CD4(+) T cells, IL-12 increasing the generation of IL-21(+) IFN-γ(+) CD4(+) T cells from memory CD4(+) T cells was only involved in STAT-4 pathway but not STAT-1.

STAT proteins regulate the expression of many genes required for the differentiation of various CD4(+) T helper cell lineages, and there is now accumulating evidence that SOCS also play essential roles in the regulation and maintenance of CD4(+) T-cell polarization.

Here, we showed that CD4+ T cells carrying a mutant gp130 that transduces the SHP2/Gab/MAPK pathway but not the STAT3-mediated one failed to develop into Th17, while CD4+ T cells whose mutant gp130 transduces the STAT3 signal only generated Th17, indicating that IL-6 acts directly on T cells through the tyrosine residues of gp130 required for STAT3 activation to promote the development of Th17.

Together, these results indicate that the intrinsic expression of Stat5a in CD4(+) T cells is required for Th2 cell differentiation and that Stat5a is involved in the development of CD4(+) CD25(+) immunoregulatory T cells that modulate T helper cell differentiation toward Th2 cells.

The antiviral effect of CD40L required activation of c-Jun N terminal kinases (JNK) 1/2 , but not induction of apoptosis or the JAK/STAT pathway that is necessary for the antiviral effects of IFNs.

We found that CD4-intrinsic Bcl6, Blimp-1, and STAT3 coordinately regulate expression of the Th1 master regulator T-bet supporting plasticity of CD4 T\240\cells.

IL-4 activates STAT6 and ERK and supports the differentiation of CD8(int) PD-L1(hi) CD44(hi) EOMES(+) innate CD8 T cells.

In the CD4-bound state, however, V1/V2 loop was rearranged near the bound CD4 to support CD4 binding.

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 322
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 323
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 324
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 325
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 326
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 327
'CD8',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 328
'CD8',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 329
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 330
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 331
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 332
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 333
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 334
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 335
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 336
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 337
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 338
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 339
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 340
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 341
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 342
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 343
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 344
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 345
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 346
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 347
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 348
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 349
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 350
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 351
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 352
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 353
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 354
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 355
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 356
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 357
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 358
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 359
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 360
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 361
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 362
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 363
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 364
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 365
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

In contrast, the increase in HLA-ABC expression by CD8+ lymphocytes was associated with transition from 2 H4+ to 2 H4int status, which suggests that increased HLA-ABC expression occurs at an earlier stage in the acquisition of CD45RO in CD8+ cells than for CD4+ cells.

We further found that interferon-γ (IFNγ) , which is produced predominantly by lupus CD8+ T cells, is the key factor that enhances IDO activity in allogeneic MSCs and that it is associated with IFNGR1/JAK-2/STAT signaling pathways.

The results showed that chicken CD8α1 is a key regulator of the expression of genes that are associated and cooperate with transcription factors in the major histocompatibility complex class I and II promoter regions and activates Janus kinase (JAK) 1/2 , signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) , and suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS) 1 signaling-related genes.

In chronic HCV infection, CD8+γ-H2AX+ T lymphocytes are highly differentiated with shortened telomeres, are more frequent within the liver, are associated with severe fibrosis and fail to activate Jak/Stat pathways in response to IFN-α, IL-2 or IL-6, perhaps explaining treatment failure in those with severe fibrosis.

M1-like macrophages (IFN/LPS-differentiated) from GILZ-/- mice showed higher expression of the M1 markers CD86, MHC class II, iNOS, IL-6 and TNF-α associated with increased levels of phosphorylated STAT1 and lower IL-10 levels, compared to M1-differentiated cells from WT mice.

Sequential formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue sections from 8 CVUE placentas and 10 control placentas were stained by immunohistochemistry with antibodies for CD3, CD4, CD8, CD20, CD25, FOXP3, CD56, CD68, HLA-DR, STAT-1, and phosphorylated STAT-1 [ P-(Y701)-STAT-1].

Hematoxylin and eosin slides were examined for the histological grades, and immunohistochemical analysis was carried out using antibodies against CD68 (pan-MΦ) , CD80 (M1 MΦ) , CD163 (M2 MΦ) , CD4 (helper T cells: Th) , CD8 (cytotoxic T cells) , CXCR3, CCR5 (Th1) , CCR4 (Th2) , signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT1)  phosphorylated STAT1 (pSTAT1) and chemokine CXCL9.

Molecular events constantly induced in the CD8 cells within the BM of untreated mice include increase of both phosphorylated STAT-5 and phosphorylated p38 intracellular levels, and the reduction of CD127 membrane expression.

Molecular studies revealed that GM-CSF released by antigen-stimulated CD8(+) T cells induced Bcl2a1 upregulation, which was repressed in the presence of IFN-γ by a direct interaction of phosphorylated STAT-1 with the Bcl2a1 promotor.

In contrast to healthy subjects, CD8+CD25+ Tregs from asthma subjects had either increased (pSTAT-5high) or decreased (pSTAT-5low) phosphorylated STAT-5 levels within individual cells.

M1-like macrophages (IFN/LPS-differentiated) from GILZ-/- mice showed higher expression of the M1 markers CD86, MHC class II, iNOS, IL-6 and TNF-α, associated with increased levels of phosphorylated STAT1 and lower IL-10 levels, compared to M1-differentiated cells from WT mice.

Interestingly, our results demonstrated that memory CD8+ T cells from ASYMP individuals expressed a unique set of genes involved in expansion and survival, type I interferon (IFN-I) , and JAK/STAT pathways.

We also demonstrated that the differential sensitivity of naïve CD8+ T cells and CD8+ TILs to β-AR signaling was linked to a strong downregulation of β2-AR expression related to their activation status, since in vitro-activated CD8+ T cells behaved similarly to CD8+ TILs.

IL-4 activates STAT6 and ERK and supports the differentiation of CD8(int) PD-L1(hi) CD44(hi) EOMES(+) innate CD8 T cells.

IL-21 signaling phosphorylates STAT3 and STAT5, but not ERK, and does not support CD8 T-cell differentiation.

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 366
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 367
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 368
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 369
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 370
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 371
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 372
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 373
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 374
'CD4',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 375
'CD4',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 376
'CD4',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 377
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 378
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 379
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 380
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 381
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 382
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 383
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 384
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 385
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 386
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 387
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 388
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 389
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 390
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 391
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 392
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 393
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 394
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 395
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 396
'MHC',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 397
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 398
'ORF6',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 399
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 400
'importin',bind,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 401
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

These results imply that JAK/STAT activation is associated with replication of leukemic cells and that therapeutic approaches aimed at JAK/STAT inhibition may be considered to halt neoplastic growth.

These results show that dysregulation of the Jak-STAT pathway is associated with viral persistence in vivo, and that Jak inhibitors target key events downstream of γ-C cytokine (IL-2, IL-7 and IL-15) ligation to their receptors, impacting the magnitude of the HIV reservoir in all memory CD4 T cell subsets in vitro and ex vivo.

In this review, we focus on the structure of JAKs and STATs, the JAK/STAT signaling pathway and its negative regulators, the associated diseases, and the JAK inhibitors for the clinical therapy.

STAT3 and associated JAKs are activated and tightly regulated by a variety of cytokines and growth factors and their receptors in normal immune responses.

High JAK-STAT scores were associated with increased mortality rates in brain and renal cancers, but not in lung and endometrial cancers where hyperactive JAK-STAT signaling is a positive prognostic factor.

We found that EMAP II-mediated changes were elicited mainly through signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) as evidenced by increased Y705 phosphorylation and changes in activity and upstream of it, Janus associated kinase (JAK) 1/2 upstream.

The expression of miR-30a, SOCS-1, Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) , signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) , Bcl-2 associated X protein (Bax) , B cell lymphoma-2 (Bcl-2) , toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) , and high-mobility group box 1 (HMGB1) , and the extent of JAK2 and STAT3 phosphorylation were all determined.

In this study, we show that adenosine suppressed IL-2-dependent proliferation of CTLL-2 T cells by inhibiting STAT5a/b tyrosine phosphorylation that is associated with IL-2R signaling without affecting IL-2-induced phosphorylation of Jak1 or Jak3.

STAT activation is strongly associated with tyrosine phosphorylation by tyrosine kinases, namely Jak1, Jak2, Jak3, and Tyk2.

Mutation of the FERM domain of JAK1, which is critical for cytokine receptor association, or of the single tyrosine of IL-9Ralpha involved in STAT recruitment abolished this activity, indicating that JAK1 mutants need to associate with a functional IL-9Ralpha to activate STAT factors.

In the process we found that the JH2 domain of JAK1, JAK2 or JAK3 could specifically associate with the carboxy-terminal portion of STAT5, but not with STAT3 or STAT1.

Four JAK proteins, JAK1, JAK2, JAK3 and tyrosine kinase 2 (Tyk2) associate with the intracellular domains of surface cytokine receptors are phosphorylating STATs and modulating gene expression.

TQ-induced downregulation of STAT3 activation was associated with a reduction in JAK2 and c-Src activity.

Such inhibition is found to be achieved through down-regulation of constitutive phosphorylation of JAK2, but not JAk1, c-Src, ERK1/2, and Akt, which means STAT3 tyrosine phosphorylation in HepG2 cells following PPPF treatment is associated with a reduction in JAK2 activity.

Dysregulated signaling of the JAK/STAT pathway is a common feature of chronic myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPN) , usually associated with JAK2V617F mutation.

Decreased STAT activation in AR86-infected cells was associated with decreased activation of the IFN receptor-associated tyrosine kinases Tyk2, Jak1, and Jak2.

In addition, all of the phosphorylated STAT3 positive cells were also positive for phosphorylated STAT1, both of which could be inhibited by a JAK2/STAT inhibitor, AG490.

Western blot assay showed the protein expression of STAT3, JAK, JAK2 phosphorylated STAT3, phosphorylated JAK1 and phosphorylated JAK2 decreased, while that of SOCS-1 and SOCS-3 increased in HL-60 cells after DAC treatment.

Western blot assay showed the protein expression of STAT3, JAK, JAK2, phosphorylated STAT3 phosphorylated JAK1 and phosphorylated JAK2 decreased, while that of SOCS-1 and SOCS-3 increased in HL-60 cells after DAC treatment.

Western blot assay showed the protein expression of STAT3, JAK, JAK2, phosphorylated STAT3, phosphorylated JAK1 and phosphorylated JAK2 decreased, while that of SOCS-1 and SOCS-3 increased in HL-60 cells after DAC treatment.

Notably a polypeptide representing the kinase domain of Jak3 (Jak3-JH1) gained the ability to tyrosine phosphorylate STAT1, suggesting that the changes in substrate recognition may be influenced by domains outside the kinase domain.

The results showed that stimulation with IL-2 resulted in increased mRNA and protein expression of STAT 5 a phosphorylated STAT 5 , JAK 3 , and phosphorylated JAK 3.

The results showed that stimulation with IL-2 resulted in increased mRNA and protein expression of STAT 5 a, phosphorylated STAT 5 , JAK 3 , and phosphorylated JAK 3.

SpSTAT could be phosphorylated by interaction with JAK of S.

In the ZHONGL-CS group, the expressions of JAK2, STAT1, and STAT3 mRNA and the levels of phosphorylated JAK2, STAT1, and STAT3 proteins were reduced.

JAKs are activated upon ligand induced receptor homo- or heterodimerization, which results in the immediate phosphorylation of tyrosine residues and the phosphotyrosines then serve as docking sites for cytoplasmic signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) proteins which become phosphorylated by the JAKs upon recruitment to the receptor complex.

JAKs are cytoplasmic proteins that, following the binding of cytokines to their receptors, transduce the signal by phosphorylating STAT proteins which enter the nuclei and rapidly target gene promoters to regulate gene transcription.

Although previous studies have reported the expression of JAK1, STAT3, and phosphorylated STAT3 in hypertrophied ligamentum flavum (LF) , the role of the Janus kinase-signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK/STAT) signaling pathway in hypertrophied LF has not been fully elucidated.

JAKs phosphorylate signal transducers and activators of transcription (STATs) simultaneously with other phosphorylations required for activation, and there are several cellular mechanisms in place to inhibit JAK/STAT signaling.

STAT3 was phosphorylated by the tyrosine kinase Jak2 that was recruited to the alpha7 subunit of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor.

Upon binding of cytokines to their receptors, Jaks are activated and phosphorylate the receptors, creating docking sites for signaling molecules, especially members of the signal transducer and activator of transcription (Stat) family.

Western blot for STAT6 phosphorylated STAT6 (pSTAT6) , Janus Kinase (Jak) 1 and Jak3 was performed.

STAT5 is phosphorylated by several JAKs, including Jak3, Jak2, and Tyk2, in response to interleukin-2, erythropoietin (EPO) , and interleukin-22, respectively.

A phenylalanine substitution at either site greatly reduced Jak3 kinase activity in vitro and its ability to phosphorylate signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 (Stat5) in vivo, suggesting that phosphorylation of these previously unrecognized residues positively regulates Jak3 activity.

The catalytic domain of the human Jak2 was expressed and its specificity for phosphorylating peptide substrates derived from the gp130, STAT, and Jak3 molecules was determined and compared to that for human Jak1 and Jak3.

Interleukin-2 (IL-2) activates the receptor-associated Janus family tyrosine kinases, Jak1 and Jak3, which in turn phosphorylate and activate specific STAT proteins (signal transducers and activators of transcription) , such as STAT5.

In signaling from gp130, a common signal transducer for the IL-6 family cytokines, STAT3, a transcription factor that contains an SH2 domain, is recruited by phosphotyrosines on gp130 and is subsequently phosphorylated by gp130-associated JAKs.

The activated Jaks are hypothesized to phosphorylate the receptors as well as a number of proteins involved in cellular signaling including SHC, the p85 subunit of PI 3-kinase, Vav and members of the Signal Transducers and Activators of Transcription (Stats) family of transcription factors.

The activated Jaks phosphorylate and activate members of a novel family of transcription factors termed signal transducers and activators of transcription (Stats).

In addition, the Jaks phosphorylate one or more of a family of signal transducers and activators of transcription (Stats).

These cytokines and interferons activate Janus family tyrosine kinases (Jak kinases) , which in turn phosphorylate and thereby activate STAT proteins.

These results indicate that gamma(c)-and Jak3-dependent signaling is essential for IL-4- and IL-9-induced proliferation and survival of murine mast cells, that the effects of IL-4 are mediated by type I IL-4R and that type II IL-4R is absent on mast cells, and that IL-4 phosphorylates the 65-kd isoform of Stat6 in mast cells in a gamma(c)-and Jak3-dependent manner.

We first observed that in the absence of Jak3, both Lck and Syk had the capacity to phosphorylate Stat3 and Stat5a.

Cell swelling induced an activation of STAT proteins through an increase in the phosphorylation of the tyrosine residue also phosphorylated by interleukin-6, but without any activation of JAK kinases.

Recruitment of latent cytoplasmic STAT transcription factors to tyrosine phosphorylated docking sites on cytokine receptors and their JAK-mediated phosphorylation instigates their translocation to the nucleus and their ability to bind DNA.

IL-4 induced similar degrees of phosphorylation of STAT6 in all 3 types of ECs, and STAT6 was phosphorylated through Jak3.

Activated JAK phosphorylate the receptor chains on tyrosines, creating docking sites for cytoplasmic transcription factors named STAT (Signal Transducers and Activators of Transcription).

Furthermore, the JAK phosphorylate the STAT which form dimers and migrate to the nucleus where they bind to specific DNA sequences leading to the activation of transcription.

As STAT3 is tyrosine phosphorylated by JAK1/2 tyrosine kinases downstream of OSMR:gp130, we demonstrated that the JAK1/2 tyrosine kinase inhibitor ruxolitinib blocked OSM driven STAT3 tyrosine phosphorylation in mouse muscle progenitor cells.

Moreover, the activation of STAT3 signaling is dependent on PERK, a central component of the ER stress response, which we show is phosphorylated by JAK1.

JAK1 and STAT1, two important neuregulin proteins, were predicted to be the target genes of micro-125b, and overexpression of micro-125b induced the decrease of phosphorylated JAK1 and STAT1.

Inhibiting STAT3 activation with a small molecule inhibitor of JAK, an upstream kinase that phosphorylates and activates STAT3, synergistically increased the anti-tumor activity of gefitinib in vitro.

This effect was associated with decreased expression of signal transducers and activators of transcription 3 (STAT3)  phosphorylated JAK2, Dickkopf homolog 1 , and receptor activator of nuclear factor κB ligand (RANKL) in the joints of arthritic mice.

Upon activation, JAK and Src kinases phosphorylate STAT3, and thereby promote cell growth and survival.

The Janus-activated kinase (JAK) family phosphorylates STAT3 in response to stimulation by cytokines or growth factors.

PN significantly decreases the JAK-STAT pathway by reducing levels of phosphorylated STAT-6 and JAK-1.

Janus activated kinases (JAK) phosphorylate STAT3 in response to stimulation by cytokines or growth factors.

In signaling from gp130, a common signal transducer for the IL-6 family cytokines, STAT3, a transcription factor that contains an SH2 domain is recruited by phosphotyrosines on gp130 and is subsequently phosphorylated by gp130-associated JAKs.

In B lymphocytes, signaling through the interleukin 6 receptor (IL-6R) induces association of TRAF3 with IL-6R-associated JAK1, to which TRAF3 recruits the phosphatase PTPN22 (protein tyrosine phosphatase number 22) to dephosphorylate JAK1 and STAT3, inhibiting IL-6R signaling.

To further explore whether JAK/STAT signaling pathway participated in specific immune responses mediated by CTP-HBcAg18-27-Tapasin, we suppressed the JAK/STAT pathway with pharmacological inhibitor (AG490) in vivo.

Furthermore, the phosphorylation level of CqSTAT was significantly inhibited by gene silencing of CqDome in Hpt cells, indicating that CqDome participated in signal transduction of JAK/STAT pathway in red claw crayfish.

Tyrosine kinase Jak3 plays a critical role in the interleukin 2 IL-2 signaling because it not only participates the Jak-Stat pathway, but also interacts with unidentified signal transducers and regulates expression of some oncogenes such as c-fos and c-myc.

Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) also participated in PHLDA1 expression downstream of the JAK2.

JAK/STAT pathway mutations were detected in 8 of 10 (80 %) patients and involved STAT3 (n\240\=\240\7) and JAK3 (n\240\=\240\1).

These signal receptors were mainly connected to downstream Jak-STAT signaling that involved the increased genes (JAK2, STAT3, and POMC) and mTOR signaling pathway, including the decreased genes (CAMKK2, AMPK, and MTOR).

FGFR2 and MAP3K1 are members of the RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK-signaling pathway, and STAT4 were involved in the JAK/STAT pathway.

Providing a pan-cancer perspective of clinically-relevant JAK-STAT alterations, this study could serve as a framework for future research investigating anti-tumor immunity using combination therapy involving JAK-STAT and immune checkpoint inhibitors.

GSEA suggested that high expression of STAT5A, STAT5B and STAT6 were involved in immune-related biological processes, drug metabolism cytochrome P450, JAK-STAT signalling pathway, and PPAR signalling pathways.

Analysis of this dataset has revealed a unique non-canonical mechanism of JAK/STATs in neurons as differential gene expression mediated by STAT3 is not solely dependent upon phosphorylation at residue 705 and may involve a BDNF-induced interaction of STAT3 with Heterochromatin Protein 1 alpha (HP1α).

These findings suggest that the neuronal BDNF-induced JAK/STAT pathway involves more than STAT3 phosphorylation at 705 , providing the first evidence for a non-canonical mechanism that may involve HP1α.

IFNβ mainly induces interferon-stimulated genes by the Janus kinase (JAK)/signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) pathway involving the canonical ISGF3 transcriptional complex, composed of STAT1, STAT2, and IRF9.

Overexpression of socs1s significantly inhibit the GH and JAK/STAT factor stat3 and the inhibitory effect of SOCS1s on GH may be involved in JAK-STAT signaling pathway.

The canonical JAK/STAT signaling pathway involves the activation of Janus kinases (JAK) or growth factors receptor kinases, phosphorylation of STAT proteins, their dimerization and translocation into the nucleus where STATs act as transcription factors with pleiotropic downstream effects.

CRC progression results from dysregulated cytoplasmic transcription factors, including signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) proteins that are involved in JAK-STAT pathway.

These data support the likelihood that although JAK3-mediated activation of STAT1 in T/C28a2 chondrocytes may involve the IL-6/IL-6R/gp130 pathway, these results indicated that STAT1 activation in response to IL-6 preferentially involved IL-6 trans-signaling via sIL-6R.

Through pathway enrichment analysis and miRNA regulatory analysis, we found that the 5 genes, such as Interleukin 22 Receptor Subunit Alpha 1 (IL22RA1) , BCL2 Like 1 (BCL2L1) , STAT1, MYC Proto-Oncogene (MYC) , and Signal Transducer And Activator Of Transcription 2 (STAT2)  involved in the Jak-STAT signaling pathway were significantly associated with prognosis.

IL22RA1, BCL2L1, STAT1, MYC, and STAT2 involved in the Jak-STAT signaling pathway may be significantly associated with prognosis of PC.

Here, we discuss how JAK/STAT signals affect ILC development and effector functions in the context of immune responses, highlighting the molecular mechanisms involved in regulation of gene expression as well as the potential of targeting the JAK/STAT pathway in inflammatory pathologies.

Is the Janus kinase and signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK-STAT) signalling pathway involved in ovarian follicle development and primordial follicle activation? JAK1 is a key factor involved in the regulation of primordial follicle activation and maintenance of the ovarian reserve.

There is also direct evidence from studies in populations with depressive disorders, suggesting that JAK/STAT pathways may be involved in the pathophysiology of depression and that the inhibition of specific JAK/STAT pathways (i.

2 , rt-hLEP and specific inhibitors AG490 (JAK-STAT inhibitor) were used to explore whether leptin induced oocytes maturation, and found that leptin incubation increased the diameters of oocytes and percentage of germinal vesicle breakdown (GVBD)-MII oocytes, up-regulated mRNA levels of genes involved in oocytes maturation and that leptin-induced oocyte maturation was related to activation of JAK-STAT pathway.

Furthermore, a seven-member family of transcription factors named Signal Transducers and Activators of Transcription (STAT) that initiate the transcriptional activation of different genes are also involved and regulate downstream the JAK/STAT signaling pathway.

STAT3 pathway was involved in curcumin-induced tumor inhibition, in which phosphorylation of STAT3 and JAK in ectopic xenograft were both declined after curcumin treatment, and the STAT3-regulated promoter activation of VEGF, Bcl-xL, Cyclin D1 was also significantly reduced after treatment.

Moreover, IL-2 signaling was strictly dependent on both JAK1 JH1 and JH2 but in IFNγ signaling JAK1 JH2 rather than kinase activity was required for STAT1 activation.

The MOLT4 transfectants with the box1 mutants of the IL-2 receptor beta chain lacking Jak1 association showed IL-2 responsiveness, in terms of activations of Jak3 and Stat5 and induction of cell growth, indicating that Jak1 is dispensable for IL-2-mediated cell growth signaling, and that Jak1 activation is not required for activation of Jak3 and Stat5 in the MOLT4 transfectants.

Although IL-2-induced phosphorylation of IL-2R beta, JAK1, and STAT5 all required the presence of JAK3, IL-4-mediated phosphorylation of JAK1, STAT6, and insulin receptor substrates 1 and 2 did not.

The MOLT-4 transfectants with the mutant beta chains lacking Jak1 association showed IL-2 responsiveness, in terms of activation of Jak3 and Stat5 and induction of cell growth, indicating that Jak1 is dispensable for IL-2-mediated cell growth signaling and that Jak1 activation is not required for activation of Jak3 and Stat5 in the MOLT-4 transfectants.

Moreover, STAT5 was found to be the predominant STAT transcription factor used by IL-2 in human T cells, and specifically required a COOH-terminal region of IL-2R beta (Ser386-Val525) , while STAT5 recruitment was not correlated to activation of IL-2R gamma or JAK3.

In particular, ten genes including Cyp2j11, Cyp2b10, Cyp3a13, Dhrs9, Socs2, Stat4, Gm13305, Cyp3a44, Retsat, and Cyp26b1 were significantly enriched in the functional categories related to retinol metabolism, linoleic acid metabolism, and Jak-STAT signaling pathway.

In addition, missense mutations in the SRC homology 2 domain of STAT3 were detected in 7 out of 37 EN‑NK/T‑NT cases (18.92 %) , and the acquired mutation was related to the activation of the JAK3/STAT3 pathway.

Herein, we show that a Mannich base, NC1153, blocked IL-2-induced activation of JAK3 and its downstream substrates STAT5a/b more effectively than activation of the closely related prolactin-induced JAK2 or TNF-alpha-driven NF-kappaB.

Afterward, to define the role of miR-186 in AD, miR-186, IL2, and JAK-STAT related protein (JAK2, STAT3) expressions were quantified.

Ph- B-ALL patients with JAK-STAT signal pathway related gene mutation, such as JAK1/JAK2 mutation showed a poor prognosis compared to the patients without mutation (OS: P=0.

Thus, deficiency of Stat5 results in severe combined immunodeficiency, similar in many respects to deficiency of IL-7R, gammac, and Jak3.

Immunosuppressive disease states, such as X-linked severe combined immunodeficiency, arise from inappropriate JAK inhibition.

To achieve maximal inhibition of STAT5 phosphorylation, we combined ruxolitinib with BKM120, a PI3K inhibitor, and RAD001, an mTOR inhibitor, obtaining improved efficacy in JAK2V617F mutated cell lines, primary patients\ cells, and JAK2V617F knock-in mice.

Expression profiling and functional studies in vitro and in vivo demonstrate that STAT3 activation is mediated by the combined action of JAK, SRC, c-ABL, and JNK kinases.

Functional characterization of the JAK3 mutations support its involvement in cytokine-independent JAK/STAT constitutive activation leading to increased cell growth.

JAK inhibition resulting in hair regrowth in some cases supports that AA is associated with the Janus kinase-signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK-STAT) signaling pathway.

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 402
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 403
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 404
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 405
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 406
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 407
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 408
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 409
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 410
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 411
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 412
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 413
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 414
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 415
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 416
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 417
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 418
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 419
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 420
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 421
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 422
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 423
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 424
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 425
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 426
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 427
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 428
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified three loci (rs17401966 in KIF1B, rs7574865 in STAT4, rs9275319 in HLA-DQ) as being associated with hepatitis B virus-related hepatocellular carcinoma (HBV-related HCC) in a Chinese population, two loci (rs2596542 in MICA, rs9275572 located between HLA-DQA and HLA-DQB) with hepatitis C virus-related HCC (HCV-related HCC) in a Japanese population.

stats" software analysis, we found that the most associated region was located in the HLA class I region and limited by HLA-A and D6S265 loci (p = 0.00056).

In this study, we dissected the specific roles of individual JAK/STAT pathway members on the IFN-γ response, and identified JAK1 as the primary mediator of JAK/STAT signaling associated with IFN-γ-induced expression of antigen-presenting molecules MHC-I and MHC-II, as well as PD-L1 and the cytostatic response to IFN-γ.

Statistical studies of associated alleles detected on each microsatellite locus showed that the pathogenic gene for Behçet disease is most likely found within a 46-kb segment between the MICA and HLA-B genes.

Statistical analyses of the associated genetic markers revealed that the HLA-Bw54 was the allele that showed primary association with silicosis and the frequencies of the C4 and HLA-DQ alleles were suggested to be increased due to their linkage disequilibrium with the HLA-Bw54.

However, only IFN gamma increases expression of three STAT1-dependent gene products examined, namely transporter associated with antigen processing-1 (TAP1) , interferon regulatory factor-1 (IRF1) , and class I major histocompatibility complex (MHC) protein, as demonstrated by immunoblotting.

STAT-1 was constitutively highly phosphorylated on the tyrosine 701 residue in HLA-B27-positive monocytic cells when compared to control cells, even prior to stimulation with LPS or bacteria.

Our results show that STAT-1 tyrosine 701 is constitutively highly phosphorylated in the HLA-B27-expressing monocyte/macrophage cell line.

These include HLA-B27 and the aminopeptidases (ERAP1, ERAP2, and LNPEPS) , which are involved in antigen processing and presentation to T-cells, and several genes (IL23R, IL6R, STAT3, JAK2, IL1R1/2, IL12B, and IL7R) involved in IL23 driven pathways of inflammation.

Using a state-of-the-art imputation method to analyse the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) region, Ombrello and colleagues narrowed down the association between human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-B51 and Behçet\s disease to a model of five amino acids of the HLA-B molecule involved in the binding of the antigen, the interactions with receptors on CD8 T cells and natural killer cells, and the signal peptide of HLA-B, suggesting a crucial role of the cellular cytotoxicity on this disease.

Mechanistically, PPAPs 1-4 reduce MHC proteins by decreasing the expression and phosphorylation of the transcription factor STAT1 involved in MHC upregulation mediated by IFN-γ.

Formation of a TCR-pMHC complex initiates T cell signaling via a poorly understood process, potentially involving changes in oligomeric state, altered interactions with CD3 subunits, and mechanical stress.

Finally, results showed that phosphorylation of STAT1/3 involved in IRG1-mediated TAP1 and MHC I expression.

However, in vivo blockade of OX40-OX40L interactions reduced GVHD mortality induced by either signal transducer and activator of transcription-6(-/-) (Stat-6(-/-)) (Th2-defective) or Stat-4(-/-) (Th1-defective) major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-disparate splenocytes, indicating that the GVHD-ameliorating effects did not require Stat-4 or Stat-6 signaling.

We found that the Jak/STAT pathways activated by the common gamma chain (CD132) or common beta chain (CDw131) cytokine receptors are not required for MHCII expression in thymic cortical epithelia.

Loss of STAT1 impairs the expression of CIITA and GATA2 but also TAP1 and Tapasin required for peptide loading and transport of MHC.

IFN-gamma signal transduction (Jak/Stat pathway) and class II transactivator (CIITA) are required components for IFN-gamma-stimulated MHC class II expression.

In addition, it is suggested that the IFN-gamma-induction of MHC class II requires PTK activities not only in the primary JAK-signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT) pathway but also in the subsequent pathway mediated by IFN-gamma-induced intermediate proteins.

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 429
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 430
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 431
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 432
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 433
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 434
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 435
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 436
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 437
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 438
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 439
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 440
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 441
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 442
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 443
'STAT',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 75

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 444
'STAT',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 75

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 445
'STAT',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 75

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 446
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 12

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 447
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 13

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 448
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 449
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 450
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 451
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 452
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

In contrast, the increase in HLA-ABC expression by CD8+ lymphocytes was associated with transition from 2 H4+ to 2 H4int status, which suggests that increased HLA-ABC expression occurs at an earlier stage in the acquisition of CD45RO in CD8+ cells than for CD4+ cells.

Infection of STAT1 R274W mice was associated with paradoxically decreased expression of IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs) and gamma interferon (IFN-γ) , likely secondary to defective CD4+ and CD8+ T cell responses, including diminished numbers of antigen-specific CD8+ T cells.

These data suggest that the alteration in STAT5 phosphorylation level might be associated with asthma and is a potential molecular basis of skewed CD8+CD25+ Treg differentiation.

Cytoplasmic STAT3 was inversely associated with the density of CD3+ (P = 0.012) , CD8+ (P = 0.003) , and FOXP3+ T lymphocytes (P = 0.002) within the cancer cell nests and was associated with an elevated systemic inflammatory response as measured by modified Glasgow Prognostic Score (mGPS2: 19 % vs.

Sequential formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue sections from 8 CVUE placentas and 10 control placentas were stained by immunohistochemistry with antibodies for CD3, CD4, CD8, CD20, CD25, FOXP3, CD56, CD68, HLA-DR, STAT-1, and phosphorylated STAT-1 [ P-(Y701)-STAT-1].

Stat5b(Tg)) mice is selectively and progressively phosphorylated in CD8(+) thymocytes.

Interestingly, our results demonstrated that memory CD8+ T cells from ASYMP individuals expressed a unique set of genes involved in expansion and survival, type I interferon (IFN-I) , and JAK/STAT pathways.

Using a state-of-the-art imputation method to analyse the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) region, Ombrello and colleagues narrowed down the association between human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-B51 and Behçet\s disease to a model of five amino acids of the HLA-B molecule involved in the binding of the antigen, the interactions with receptors on CD8 T cells and natural killer cells, and the signal peptide of HLA-B, suggesting a crucial role of the cellular cytotoxicity on this disease.

In response to antigen, CD8(+) T cells can produce IFN-gamma independently of IL-12, whereas CD4(+) T cells require IL-12 and Stat4 activation.

Furthermore, we demonstrate that IL-12-induced STAT-4 activation was required for T helper type 1 (Th1) cytokine-induced IFN-gamma production in CD8 T cells.

We also demonstrated that the differential sensitivity of naïve CD8+ T cells and CD8+ TILs to β-AR signaling was linked to a strong downregulation of β2-AR expression related to their activation status, since in vitro-activated CD8+ T cells behaved similarly to CD8+ TILs.

Here, we discuss new attempts at re-educating immune suppressive tumor-associated macrophages towards a CD8 T cell supporting profile, with an emphasis on the role of STAT transcription factors on TAM functional programs.

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 453
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 454
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 455
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 456
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 457
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 458
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

These findings imply the importance of CD4+ T cells (but not CD8+ and CD3+ T cells) in SARS-CoV-2 infection associated pneumonia and indicate that CD4+ T cells might be important for the control of SARS-CoV-2.

Using this resource, we showed that genetic variations in SARS-CoV-2 are associated with loss of B cell immunogenicity, an increase in CD4 + T cell immunogenicity, and a minimum loss in CD8 + T cell immunogenicity, indicating the existence of a curious correlation between SARS-CoV-2 genetic evolutions and the immunity pressure from the host.

Baseline levels of CD8+ T cells, resting NK cells, and activated NK cells, as well as cytokines that recruit these cells, are significantly lower in lung tissues with high expression of the SARS-CoV-2 entry receptor angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2).

Flow cytometric analysis showed that both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells were involved in cellular responses to SARS-CoV M antigen.

As we understand more about the immune response to SARS-CoV-2 it appears that a functional CTL (CD8+) response is required to clear the infection and COVID-19 severity is increased as the CD8+ response becomes somehow diminished or exhausted.

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

In conclusion, darunavir-cobicistat therapy was found to be associated with a significant survival benefit in critically ill patients with SARS-CoV-2 infection.

In the present study, we demonstrated that signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) 3 , which is constitutively phosphorylated at tyrosine (Tyr)-705 and slightly phosphorylated at serine (Ser)-727 in Vero E6 cells, was dephosphorylated at Tyr-705 on SARS-CoV infection.

We have analyzed 453 SARS-CoV-2 genomes collected between 20 February and 15 March 2020 from infected patients in Washington State, USA.

The presence of pan JAK-STAT components in mammary alveolar cells and in Type II Pneumocytes combined with the autoregulation of both STAT1 and STAT5 suggests a prominent role of cytokine signaling pathways in cells targeted by SARS-CoV-2.

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 459
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 460
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 461
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 462
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 463
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 464
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

The presence of pan JAK-STAT components in mammary alveolar cells and in Type II Pneumocytes combined with the autoregulation of both STAT1 and STAT5 suggests a prominent role of cytokine signaling pathways in cells targeted by SARS-CoV-2.

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 465
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 466
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 467
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 468
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 469
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 470
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 471
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 472
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 473
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 474
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 475
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 476
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 477
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 478
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 479
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 480
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 481
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 482
'STAT',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 75

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 483
'STAT',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 75

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 484
'STAT',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 75

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 485
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 12

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 486
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 13

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 487
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 488
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 489
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 490
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 491
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 12

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 492
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 13

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 493
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 494
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 495
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 496
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 497
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 498
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 499
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 500
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 501
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 502
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 503
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 504
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 505
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 506
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 507
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 508
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 509
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 510
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 511
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 512
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 513
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 514
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 515
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 516
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 517
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 518
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 519
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 520
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 521
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 522
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 523
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 524
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 525
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 526
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 527
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

Female gender, decreased cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4) count and high adverse childhood experience (ACE) , were significantly associated with current depressive episode, while poor social support, high ACE, physical abuse, contacting HIV infection after birth and disclosure of status, were associated with lifetime major depressive episode.

Infection of STAT1 R274W mice was associated with paradoxically decreased expression of IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs) and gamma interferon (IFN-γ) , likely secondary to defective CD4+ and CD8+ T cell responses, including diminished numbers of antigen-specific CD8+ T cells.

These results show that dysregulation of the Jak-STAT pathway is associated with viral persistence in vivo, and that Jak inhibitors target key events downstream of γ-C cytokine (IL-2, IL-7 and IL-15) ligation to their receptors, impacting the magnitude of the HIV reservoir in all memory CD4 T cell subsets in vitro and ex vivo.

Among HIV positive patients attending CTCs, poor nutritional status, low CD4 counts and not taking ART treatment were associated with higher TB incidence, highlighting the need to get PLHIV on treatment early, and the need for close monitoring of CD4 counts.

Moreover, STAT1 overexpression was associated with reduced survival in CD4+ T cells undergoing lymphopenia-induced proliferation (LIP).

To test whether defective IL-7 signaling could be an etiologic or contributing factor in ICL, peripheral blood mononuclear cells from patients with ICL (median CD4 T-cell count, 160 cells/μL) and healthy controls (median CD4 T-cell count, 582 cells/μL) were evaluated for expression of IL-7Rα chain (CD127) and intracellular phosphorylated STAT-5 (a marker of γc cytokine signaling) after cytokine stimulation.

Lymph node biopsies, in which both total STAT3 and phosphorylated STAT3 were down-regulated by HDI, were probed with STAT5, FOXP3, CD4, and interleukin 17 (IL-17) with immunohistochemistry and/or immunofluorescence techniques.

Our study demonstrates that G6b-B expression is highly restricted to peripheral CD4+ T cells and up-regulated by the IL-4-induced STAT6 pathway, strongly suggesting that G6b-B is involved in regulation of the immune response by CD4+ T cell-mediated and IL-4 induced regulatory mechanisms.

The development of naive CD4+ T cells into a T helper (Th) 2 subset capable of producing interleukin (IL)-4 , IL-5, and IL-13 involves a signal transducer and activator of transcription (Stat) 6-dependent induction of GATA-3 expression, followed by Stat6-independent GATA-3 autoactivation.

Together, these results indicate that the intrinsic expression of Stat5a in CD4(+) T cells is required for Th2 cell differentiation and that Stat5a is involved in the development of CD4(+) CD25(+) immunoregulatory T cells that modulate T helper cell differentiation toward Th2 cells.

Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription (STAT) 4 and STAT6 are key proteins involved in the CD4(+) T cell differentiation pathways leading to T helper type (Th) 1 and Th2 cell development, respectively.

Treg are generated from activated CD4(+) T cells in a process that involves the phosphorylation of STAT family members.

It has been suggested that the underlying mechanism that contributes to this T cell dysfunction before CD4+ cell decline involves down-regulation of surface receptors, alterations in intracellular redox status, interference by viral Ags, and later in infection, the absence or alteration of specific cytokine production.

STAT proteins regulate the expression of many genes required for the differentiation of various CD4(+) T helper cell lineages, and there is now accumulating evidence that SOCS also play essential roles in the regulation and maintenance of CD4(+) T-cell polarization.

Both lineages require signal transducer and activator of transcription (Stat) 4 activation for IFN-gamma induced by interleukin (IL)-12/IL-18 signaling, but only CD4(+) T cells require Stat4 for IFN-gamma induction via the TCR pathway.

In response to antigen, CD8(+) T cells can produce IFN-gamma independently of IL-12, whereas CD4(+) T cells require IL-12 and Stat4 activation.

CD4+ T cell differentiation into cells capable of producing IL-4 and IL-13 (Th2 cells) requires the presence of IL-4 and is STAT-6 dependent.

In CD4 TH2 cells IL-33-mediated production of IL-13 requires simultaneous signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) 5 activation.

In this reason, TRAF2 and TRAF5 in naïve CD4+ T cells negatively regulate IL-6-mediated activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) that is required for the development of IL-17-secreting CD4+ TH17 cells.

Analysis of STAT5 phosphorylation in CD4 T cells indicates that it is transient and requires higher cytokine concentrations than that of STAT3.

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 528
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 529
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 530
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 531
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 532
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 533
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 534
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 535
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 536
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 537
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 538
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 539
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 540
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 541
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 542
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 543
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 544
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 545
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 546
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 547
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 548
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 549
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 550
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 551
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 552
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 553
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 554
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 555
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 556
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 557
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 558
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 559
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 560
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 561
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 562
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 563
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 564
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 565
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 566
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 567
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 568
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 569
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 570
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 571
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 572
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 573
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 574
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 575
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 576
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 577
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 578
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 579
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 580
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 581
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 582
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 583
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 584
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 585
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 586
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 587
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 588
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 589
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 590
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 591
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 592
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 593
'STAT',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 75

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 594
'STAT',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 75

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 595
'STAT',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 75

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 596
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 12

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 597
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 13

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 598
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 599
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 600
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 601
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 602
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 603
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 604
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 605
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 606
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 607
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 608
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 609
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 610
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 611
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 612
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 613
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 614
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 615
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 616
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 617
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 618
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 619
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 620
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 621
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 622
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 623
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 624
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 625
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 626
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 627
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 628
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 629
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 630
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 631
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 632
'STAT',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 75

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 633
'STAT',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 75

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 634
'STAT',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 75

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 635
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 12

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 636
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 13

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 637
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 638
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 639
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 640
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 641
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 642
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 643
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 644
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 645
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 646
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 647
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 648
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 649
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 650
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 651
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 652
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 653
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 654
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 655
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 656
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 657
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 658
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 659
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

The presence of pan JAK-STAT components in mammary alveolar cells and in Type II Pneumocytes combined with the autoregulation of both STAT1 and STAT5 suggests a prominent role of cytokine signaling pathways in cells targeted by SARS-CoV-2.

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 660
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 661
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 662
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 663
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 664
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 665
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 666
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 667
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 668
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 669
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 670
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 224

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 671
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

These findings imply the importance of CD4+ T cells (but not CD8+ and CD3+ T cells) in SARS-CoV-2 infection associated pneumonia and indicate that CD4+ T cells might be important for the control of SARS-CoV-2.

Using this resource, we showed that genetic variations in SARS-CoV-2 are associated with loss of B cell immunogenicity, an increase in CD4 + T cell immunogenicity, and a minimum loss in CD8 + T cell immunogenicity, indicating the existence of a curious correlation between SARS-CoV-2 genetic evolutions and the immunity pressure from the host.

Flow cytometric analysis showed that both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells were involved in cellular responses to SARS-CoV M antigen.

The elimination of pulmonary SARS-CoV infection required the activation of B cells by CD4(+) T cells.

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 672
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 673
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 674
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 675
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 676
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 677
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 678
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 679
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 680
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 681
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 682
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 683
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 684
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 685
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 686
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 687
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 688
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 689
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 690
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 691
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 692
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 693
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 694
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 695
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 696
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 697
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 698
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 699
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 700
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 701
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 12

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 702
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 13

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 703
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 704
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 705
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 706
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 707
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 708
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 709
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 710
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 12

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 711
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 13

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 712
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 713
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 12

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 714
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 13

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 715
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 716
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 717
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 718
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 719
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 720
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 721
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 722
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 723
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 724
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 725
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 726
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 727
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 728
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 729
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 730
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 731
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 732
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 733
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 734
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 735
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 736
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 737
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 738
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 739
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 740
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 741
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 742
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 743
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 744
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 745
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 746
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 747
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 748
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 749
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 750
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 751
'CD8',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 74

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 752
'STAT',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 75

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 753
'STAT',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 75

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 754
'STAT',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 75

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 755
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 12

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 756
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 13

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 757
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 758
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 759
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 760
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 761
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 12

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 762
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 13

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 763
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 764
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 765
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 766
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 767
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 768
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 769
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 770
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 771
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 772
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 773
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 774
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 775
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 776
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 777
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 778
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 779
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 780
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 781
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 782
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 783
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 784
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 785
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 786
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 787
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 788
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 789
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 790
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 791
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 792
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 793
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 794
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 795
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 796
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 797
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 798
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 799
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 800
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 801
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 802
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 803
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 804
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 805
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 806
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 807
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 808
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 809
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 810
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 811
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 812
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 813
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 814
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 815
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 816
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 817
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 818
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 819
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 820
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 821
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 822
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 823
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 824
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 825
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 826
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 827
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 828
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 829
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 830
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 831
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 832
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 833
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 834
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 835
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 836
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 837
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 838
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 839
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 840
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 841
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 842
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 843
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 844
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 845
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 846
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 847
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 848
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 849
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 850
'MHC',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 72

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 851
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 852
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 853
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 854
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 855
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 856
'importin',bind,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'importin',bind,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 73

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 197

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 857
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'STAT'

The isoform importin α5 can bind phosphorylated cargos such as STAT1 and Epstein-Barr Virus Nuclear Antigen 1 , as well as the influenza virus polymerase subunit PB2.

These results suggest that Arg214/215 is likely the binding site for importin alpha5, whereas Arg414/417 may not be involved in the direct binding, but necessary for maintaining the proper conformation of Stat3 dimer for importin binding.

Moreover, Pol was found to interfere with nuclear transportation of STAT1/2 by competitively binding to the region of importin-α5 required for STAT1/2 recruitment.

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 858
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 857

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 859
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 857

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 860
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 857

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 861
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 857

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 862
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 857

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 863
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 857

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 864
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 857

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 865
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 857

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 866
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 857

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 867
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 857

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 868
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 857

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 869
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 857

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 870
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 857

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 871
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 857

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 239

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 872
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 857

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 873
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 857

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 874
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 857

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 203

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 875
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 857

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 876
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 857

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 877
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 857

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 365

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 878
'STAT',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'ORF6';'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 126

----> event: 'importin',associate,'ORF6'

Lastly, we describe the identification and characterization of two novel E1B-55K interacting factors, importin-alpha 1 and pp32, that may also participate in the functions previously ascribed to E1B-55K and E4-orf6.

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 879
'STAT',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'ORF6';'ORF6',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 126

----> event: 'importin',associate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 878

----> event: 'ORF6',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 47

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 880
'STAT',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'ORF6';'ORF6',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 126

----> event: 'importin',associate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 878

----> event: 'ORF6',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 48

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 881
'STAT',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'ORF6';'ORF6',bind,'ORF6'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 126

----> event: 'importin',associate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 878

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'ORF6'

We mapped the region of ORF6, which binds karyopherin alpha 2 , to the C terminus of ORF6 and show that mutations in the C terminus no longer bind karyopherin alpha 2 or block the nuclear import of STAT1.

After the fifth round of biopanning with Escherichia coli-synthesized ORF6-His tagged protein, the relative binding affinity of phage clones to ORF6 was determined using direct enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.

The ORF6 protein of tomato mosaic virus (ToMV) strain L (L-ORF6)  interacts in vitro with eukaryotic elongation factor 1 α, and mutation of the ORF6 gene of tobacco mosaic virus (TMV) strain U1 (U1-ORF6) reduces the pathogenicity in vivo of TMV, whereas expression of this gene from two other viruses, tobacco rattle virus (TRV) and potato virus X (PVX) , increases their pathogenicity.

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 882
'STAT',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'ORF6';'ORF6',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 126

----> event: 'importin',associate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 878

----> event: 'ORF6',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 70

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 883
'STAT',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'ORF6';'ORF6',inhibit,'ORF6'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 126

----> event: 'importin',associate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 878

----> event: 'ORF6',inhibit,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 71

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 884
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'ORF6';'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 878

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 885
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'ORF6';'ORF6',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 878

----> event: 'ORF6',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 47

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 886
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'ORF6';'ORF6',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 878

----> event: 'ORF6',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 48

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 887
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'ORF6';'ORF6',bind,'ORF6'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 878

----> event: 'ORF6',bind,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 881

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 888
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'ORF6';'ORF6',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 878

----> event: 'ORF6',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 70

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 889
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'ORF6';'ORF6',inhibit,'ORF6'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 878

----> event: 'ORF6',inhibit,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 71

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 890
'STAT',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 126

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

This study showed that abdominal irradiation induces an acute remodeling of the ileum associated with an increased expression of MMPs and TIMPs that do not involve CD8+ T cells but involve mesenchymal and epithelial cells, although to a lesser extent, and probably even soluble inflammatory and fibrogenic mediators.

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 891
'STAT',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 126

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 892
'STAT',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 126

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 893
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 12

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 894
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 13

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 895
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 896
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 51

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 897
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 52

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 898
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',bind,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 182

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 899
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 900
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 901
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 902
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 903
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 904
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 905
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 906
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 907
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 908
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 909
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 910
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 911
'STAT',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 126

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 912
'STAT',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 126

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 913
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 914
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 915
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 916
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 917
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 918
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 919
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 920
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 921
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 922
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 923
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 924
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 925
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 926
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 927
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 928
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 929
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 930
'CD4',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 125

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 931
'STAT',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 126

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 932
'STAT',bind,'importin';'importin',associate,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'importin'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 126

----> event: 'importin',associate,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 890

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 933
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 934
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 935
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 936
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 937
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 938
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 939
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 940
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 941
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 942
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 943
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 944
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 945
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 946
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 947
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 948
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 949
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 950
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 951
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 952
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 953
'STAT',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 142

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 954
'STAT',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 142

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 955
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 956
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 957
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 958
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 959
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 960
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 961
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 962
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 963
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 964
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 965
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 966
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 967
'STAT',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 142

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 968
'STAT',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 142

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 969
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 10

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 970
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 11

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 971
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 972
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 973
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 974
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 975
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 976
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 977
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 978
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 979
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 980
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 981
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 982
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 983
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 984
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 985
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 313

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 986
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 987
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 988
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 989
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 990
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 991
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 992
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 993
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 994
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 995
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 996
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 997
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 998
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 999
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1000
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1001
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'STAT';'STAT',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 452

----> event: 'STAT',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 321

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1002
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1003
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1004
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1005
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1006
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1007
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1008
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1009
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1010
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1011
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1012
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1013
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1014
'STAT',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 142

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1015
'STAT',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 142

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 261

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1016
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1017
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1018
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1019
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1020
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1021
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1022
'STAT',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 142

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1023
'STAT',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 142

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 251

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1024
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1025
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1026
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1027
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1028
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1029
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1030
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1031
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1032
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1033
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1034
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1035
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1036
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1037
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1038
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1039
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1040
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1041
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'MHC';'MHC',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'MHC'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 191

----> event: 'MHC',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 428

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1042
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 10

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1043
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 11

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1044
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1045
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1046
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1047
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1048
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1049
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1050
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 216

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1051
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1052
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1053
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1054
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1055
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1056
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1057
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1058
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1059
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1060
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1061
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1062
'CD4',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 141

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1063
'STAT',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 142

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1064
'STAT',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 142

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1065
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 10

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1066
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 11

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1067
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1068
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 49

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1069
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 50

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1070
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1071
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1072
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1073
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1074
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1075
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1076
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1077
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1078
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1079
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1080
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1081
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 292

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 464

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1082
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1083
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1084
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1085
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1086
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1087
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 527

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1088
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1089
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1090
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1091
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1092
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1093
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3';'JAK3',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'JAK3'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 659

----> event: 'JAK3',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 401

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1094
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',bind,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',bind,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1095
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 14

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1096
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 27

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1097
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',inhibit,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 40

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1098
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 53

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1099
'MHC',bind,'CD8';'CD8',associate,'CD4';'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV';'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT';'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

----> event: 'MHC',bind,'CD8'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 140

----> event: 'CD8',associate,'CD4'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 212

----> event: 'CD4',associate,'SARS-CoV'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 671

----> event: 'SARS-CoV',associate,'STAT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 458

----> event: 'STAT',regulate,'ORF6'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 66

